\f23\cf2\fs24\f2\fs24\f2\fs24\f23 INBRED STRAINS OF RATS\par\qc Updated April 9, 1998.\par\qj Michael F.W. Festing\par For the committee on Genetic Nomenclature of the Rat:\par  T.J. Gill III, T. Nomura, G.W. Butcher, E. Gunther, H.W. Kunz, G. Levan, K. Moriwaki, T. Natori, H. Katoh\par\par The first listing of rat strains was by Billingham and Silvers (1959), with subsequent listings by Festing and Staats (1973) and Festing (1979a,b). This latest listing is based on that list plus several recent updates, including Greenhouse et al (1991). Particular attention has been paid to studies involving several strains, and where possible strains have been ranked on their characteristics with approximately the top quartile being classified as "high" and the bottom as "low". Thus, 'low litter size (10/12)' indicates that the strain in question ranked 10th. of 12 strains in which litter size was reported in a particular study. It must be emphasised that strain rankings may alter in different environmental conditions, so these should only be taken as a guide.    The list contains 234 strains.\par\par It is clear from the listings that there are many inbred strains of rat, but little is known about most of them. Many of them are likely to have characteristics of interest. More effort in characterising these strains would probably be cost-effective. Comparative studies involving several (six or more) strains, preferably including F344 and LEW as "standard" strains would be particularly valuable.\par\par The following gene symbols have been used in the listings without further explanation:\par\par Symbol         Name      \par{\i A} \tab Agouti\par{\i a}\tab Non-agouti\par{\i H}\tab Non-hooded\par{\i h}\tab Hooded\par{\i h}{\i\up4 i\tab}{\up4} Irish hooding (much more black than h)\par{\i P}\tab Non-pink-eyed (ie, wild type)\par{\i p}\tab Pink-eyed dilute.\par A28807. \par Inbr. F49 (NIH 1989). \par Colour: Pink-eyed dilute hooded, . \par Genet: {\i h, p.} \par Origin: Curtis and Dunning in 1936 as a subline of A7322 derived from a half-brother x sister mating at F15. To NIH in 1977 at F25 (Hansen et al 1982). \par Characteristics\par Poor survival to 2-years in males, 50% (rank 3/5) and in females 55% (rank 3/5) with minimal chronic renal disease (Solleveld and Boorman 1986). Very docile. Susceptible to the induction of autoimmune thyroiditis (Penhale et al 1975a,b). Low and intermediate antibody responses to 1 and 10 g BSA, respectively (Armerding et al 1974a). Low antibody response to streptococcal group A carbohydrate; not linked to the MHC (Stankus and Leslie 1976). High relative heart weight in 10-week old males (20/23) (Tanase et al 1982).\par A35322. \par Inbr. F89. \par Colour: Black hooded. \par Genet: {\i a, h}. \par Origin: Curtiss and Dunning 1942 from a mutation originating in an aunt x nephew cross at F27 of animals of strain A990. \par Characteristics\par Vaginal prolapse frequent. Short latency to emerge from cage into familiar (2/12) and novel environment (4/12) (Harrington 1971a). High open-field defaecation (3/12 males, 1/12 females, Harrington 1972). High wheel activity (3/12 females, 4/14 males) (Harrington 1971b).\par A7322. \par Inbr: F64. \par Colour: Pink-eyed dilute hooded. \par Genet: {\i h, p}. \par Origin: Curtis 1925 at Columbia University Institute of Cancer Research. Spontaneous mammary tumours frequent. Resistant to {\i Cysticercus.}\par A990 \par Inbr. F122 (1988).\par Colour: Agouti or non-agouti hooded. \par Genet. {\i A} or {\i a, C, h}. \par Origin: Curtiss 1921 at Columbia University Institute for Cancer Research. \par Characterisitcs\par Resistant to {\i Cysticercus}. Susceptible to oestrogen-induced mammary and adrenal tumours. Good reproduction. High open-field defaecation (2/12, males, 3/12 females) and low ambulation (11/12), Harrington (1972). Low wheel activity (12/12) (Harrington 1971b). Agressive towards handlers (Harrington 1981).\par AAW \par Inbr. F?  \par Origin: Atomic Energy Commission, Melbourne (Adams et al 1984)\par AB/1 \par Inbr. F19 (1989) \par Origin: Reserved symbol for strain in development (NIH).\par AB/2 \par Inbr. F17 (1989) \par Origin: Reserved symbol for strain in development (NIH).\par ABH \par Inbr. F?. \par Colour: Non-agouti brown hooded,\par Genet. {\i a, b, h}. \par Origin: Yamada from a cross  between BN and outbred Wistar stock, with selection for the above coat colour, as  a stock for testing coat colour genes in albino strains (Yamada and Nakajima 1976). To Nishimura, Hammatsu University School of Medicine, Japan.\par ACH \par Inbr. F73+. \par Colour: Black hooded. \par Genet. a, h. \par Origin: Curtiss and Dunning 1926 at Columbia University Institute for Cancer Research. \par Characteristics\par High incidence of spontaneous lymphosarcoma of ileocaecal mesentary. Possibly extinct.\par ACI \par Inbr.F147 (NIH, 1989). \par Colour: Agouti with white belly and feet. \par Genet. {\i A h}{\i\up4 i}{\i .} \par Origin: Curtiss and Dunning 1926 at the Columbia University Institute for Cancer Research. To Heston 1945 at F30, to National Institutes of Health 1950 at F41. Subsequent sublines from Dunning or NIH.\par Characteristics.\par Behaviour\par Long latency to emerge into familar (11/12 male, 9/12 female) and novel environment (12/12 male, 11/12 female) (Harrington 1971a). Has a strong 24-hr. rhythm in wheel running activity when compared with LEW (Siebert and Wollnik 1991).\par Biochemistry and physiology\par Almost free of spike-wave discharges associate with absence epilepsy seen in strain WAG/Rij,  while BN/Bi, B and G were intermediate (Inoue et al 1990).  Low serum thyroxine (5/5) (Esber et al 1974). Low systolic blood pressure (17/17) (Hansen et al 1973). Low blood pressure (18/23), reaching 124_1.1 (SEM) mmHg at 10 weeks of age (Tanase et al 1982).  \par  Copper deficiency results in pigment patterns similar to that of the mottled mouse, a model for Menkes' kinky hair syndrome (Miranda et al 1992). Liver gangliosides are of the a-type (cf LEA,LEW & BUF) (Kasai et al 1993)\par Lifespan and spontaneous disease\par Median survival 113 weeks in males, 108 weeks in females. Spontaneous tumours 46% testes,16% adrenal, 5% pituitary, 6% skin and ear duct and fewer of other types in males; 21% pituitary, 13% uterus, 11% mammary gland, 6% adrenal and fewer of other types in females. Other conditions include 28% of males and 20% of females with absent, hypoplastic or cystic kidneys on one side sometimes associated with an absent or defective uterine horn or atrophic testes on the same side (Maekawa and Odashima 1975). These abnormalities have a polygenic mode of inheritance (Cramer and Gill 1975).  Spontaneous adenocarcinomas of ventral prostate seen in 7/41 untreated males at 34-37 months (Shain et al 1975, see also Ward et al 1980, Isaacs 1984). This is substantially increased by a high fat diet (Kondo et al 1994). High survival to 2 years of age at 74% (rank 2/5) in males and 70% (rank 1/5) in females. However, a high incidence of relatively mild chronic renal disease and a high incidence of hydronephrosis and the congenital renal agenesis may make the strain unsuitable for long-term toxicological studies (Solleveld and Boorman 1986). Four spontaneous kidney and five bladder tumours found among a cohort of 300 rats maintained for 30 months (Vanmoorsellar et al 1993).  \par Urolithiasis seen in 2/55 rats at an average age of 144 days (Kunstyr et al 1982).  A diet deficient in choline and methionine has been used to develop a rat model of fatty liver transplantation (Teramoto et al 1993).\par Drugs and chemicals\par Many tumours induced by ptaquiloside, a carcinogen in the bracken fern (Hirono et al 1987). Caffein suppresses 2-acetylaminofluorine-induced hepatic tumours (Hosaka et al 1984). Effects of retinoids on tumours of the skin, prostate and endocrine pancreas studied by Ohshina et al (1985). Susceptible to the development of  glioblastomas of a mixed oligo-astrocytic type following treatment with N-methyl-N-nitrosourea in the drinking water (Shibutani et al 1993). Like F344, refractory to the development of prostatic hyperplasia induced by citral compared with outbred Wistar and Sprague-Dawley rats (Scolnik et al 1994). Highly sensitive to the development of N-methyl-N'-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG) induced gastric cancer though levels of adduct were same as in the resistant BUF strain (Sugimura et al 1995). Susceptible to the induction of tumours of the large intestine and forestomach by 1-hydroxyanthraquinone, though incidence can be reduced by the nonsteroidal anti-inflamatory drug indomethacin  (Tanaka et al 1995).\par High hepatic metabolism of anilene in females (2/10) (Page and Vesell 1969). Absorbs diethylstilboestrol at intermediate rate, leading to a high incidence of mammary tumours (Dunning et al 1947, see also Rothschild et al 1987). High LD{\dn4 50} (120mg/kg) for pentobarbital sodium (1/7) (Shearer et al 1973). Long pentobarbitone sleeping time (1/10 males, 3/10 females), Vieregge et al (1987). Susceptible to the induction of gastric tumours by N-methyl-N-nitro-N- nitrosoguanidine (Ohgaki et al 1983).\par Immunology\par Resistant to the development of experimental glomerulonephritis following injection of nephritogenic antigen from bovine renal basement membrane (9/10) (Naito et al, 1991). Widely used in transplantation immunology, particularly using transplantation of ACI to LEW heart and other tissues/organs (see e.g. Tchervenkov et al 1995, Levy and Alexander 1995, Buttemeyer et al 1995). Neonatal pancreatic islets derived by non-enzymic (in vitro) isolation procedures can not be transplanted across MHC barriers without any immune suppression like most other strains but in contrast with F344 (Ketchum et al, 1992).\par Reproduction\par Poor reproductive performance (9/12) and low litter size (11/12) (Hansen et al 1973). High (11%) early prenatal mortality (2/8) and high (10%) incidence of congenital malformations (Shoji 1977). High {\i in-utero} embryo mortality, which depends on maternal genotype (Cramer and Gill 1975).\par Miscellaneous\par Will grow transplantable Morris hepatomas 3924A which can be used as a model for the treatment of liver cancer (Yang et al 1995).\par\par ACP. \par Inbr.F95 (Pit). \par Colour: Black with white belly and feet. \par Genet: {\i a, h}{\i\up4 i}{\i .} \par Origin: Dunning to National Cancer Institute 1967 at F54.\par AD-1 to AD-5 (five strains)  \par Inbr.  F20 (1987). \par Colour: Albino.  \par Genet.{\i a, B, c, h.} \par Origin: Selected from the NAR outbred stock carrying a Mendelian recessive gene ({\i alb}), linked to the hooded locus, causing analbuminemia. The mutant is characterised by very low levels of serum albumin and hyperlipidemia. The inbred strains have high levels of serum cholesterol and triglycerides (Shumiya et al 1987).\par AGA. \par Inbr.F>20. \par Colour: Black. \par Genet: {\i a}. \par Origin: Nakic, Zagreb (Stark et al 1968b). Used for immunological studies. No further information.\par AGUS. \par Inbr.F>35. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet: {\i a, c, H}. \par Origin: Germ-free strain developed by Gustafsson from stock (Sprague-Dawley?) by hysterectomy derivation in 1948 at F10. To Laboratory Animals Centre, Carshalton 1968 at F26. \par Characteristics\par  Susceptible to experimental allergic encephalitis (Hughes and Stedronska 1973). Relatively resistant to infection by {\i Entamoeba histolytica} (Neal and Harris 1975). Good breeding performance, although sensitive to environmental influences. About 1-4% tailless young, which are infertile with major skeletal and genital defects (Lovell and Sparrow 1984). Long gestation period (3/8) (Peters 1986). Absence of a microflora in germfree AGUS rats prolongs the cell cycle time and reduces proliferative activity in the colonic crypts (Alam et al 1994).\par ALB \par Inbr. F87 (Hok). \par Colour: Dilute brown.\par Genet. {\i a, b, d, C, H}. \par Origin: Wolf and Wright, Albany Medical College in an attempt to develop a strain with a high incidence of spontaneous tumours, to NIH in 1950. No inbreeding records prior to transfer. \par Characteristics\par Docile behaviour. About 10% mammary fibroadenomas (Wright et al 1940). Variable frequency of foetal resorption which affects reproductive performance (Hansen et al 1973). Low hepatic metabolism of anilene in females (10/10) (Page and Vesell 1969). Poor reproductive performance (11/12) and small litter size (10/12) (Hansen et al 1973). High 10-week body weight in males (22/23) (Tanase et al 1982).\par AM \par Inbr. F25. \par Colour: Yellow coat colour. \par Genet:  unknown. \par Origin: Torres, Rio de Janeiro, from outbred stock.\par AMDIL. \par Inbr. F25. \par Colour: Dilute yellow coat colour. \par Genet.  unknown. \par Origin: Torres, see AM.\par AO \par Inbr.F?+48. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet.{\i  A, c, h.} \par Origin: From ARC Compton, probably as "WAG", to Gowans, Oxford 1957. Appears to differ from other WAG sublines in having {\i A} at the agouti locus. Resistant to the development of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis upon treatment with a myelin basic protein-specific T cell line derived from an F1 hybrid between resistant AO and susceptible DA strain rats. This resistance was not abrogated by deletion of host's leukocytes using sublethal irradiation and cytotoxi drugs (Mostaricastrojkovic et al, 1992). Susceptible (2/4) to ocular infection with herpes simplex virus. PVG was relatively resistant (Nicholls et al, 1994). Met-enkephalin decreased H{\dn4 2}O{\dn4 2} production by macrophages (contrast DA) (Radulovic et al, 1995).\par APR (formerly MF)\par Inbr. F50\par Colour: Albino\par Genet. {\i c}\par Origin: Developed as strain "MF" by Holme and Piechuta (1979) by selective breeding of Sprague-Dawley outbred rats. Individuals were injected sub-cutaneously with egg albumin and B. pertussis vaccine i.p. then challenged with areosolised egg albumin after 14-18 days. Individuals within litters with the most severe symproms (longest duration of dyspnea) were selected and mated brother x sister. Later re-named APR (Apnea Prone Rat).\par Characteristics\par Develop asthema-like symproms on challenge with aerosolised antigen.\par AS. \par Inbr.F60+. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet:{\i  c}. \par Origin: University of Otago from Wistar rats imported from England in 1930. May be subline of GH, with which it is histocompatible (Heslop and Phelan 1973). \par Characteristics\par Hypertensive, though not to such an extent as GH (Heslop and Phelan 1973). Glomerular filtration rate and renal plasma flow studied by Hackbarth et al (1981), and haematology and its relation to diet studied by Hackbarth et al (1983). Susceptible to the development of experimetnal allergic encephalomyelitis (Hughes and Stedronska 1973). Susceptible to induction of autologous immune complex glomerulonephritis associated with the major histocompatibility complex (Stenglein et al 1975). Low antibody response to phytohaemagglutinin; not linked to MHC (Koch 1976). Long pentobarbitone sleeping time (2/10 males, 1/10 females, Vieregge et al 1987)  Good reproductive performance.\par AS2 \par Inbr. F60+. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet: c. \par Origin: Outbred rats at the University of Otago Medical School, to Dept. of Surgery 1963 at F22-24. Not histocompatible with AS (Heslop 1968). \par Characteristics\par Slightly higher blood pressure than in outbred albinos (Heslop and Phelan 1973). High secondary antibody response to the polypeptide (T,G)-Pro-Lys (3/20) (G\'9fnther et al 1976).\par AUG \par Inbr: F85 (Pit). \par Colour: Dilute hooded. \par Genet: {\i h, p.} \par Origin: Derived from one of the US "August" sublines in 1951 and distributed by the Chester Beatty Institute, Pollards Wood, England. \par Characteristics\par Susceptible to experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (Hughes and Stedronska 1973). Resistant to the induction of autoimmune thyroiditis according to Rose (1975), but susceptible according to Penhale et al (1975a,b.). Low antibody response to streptococcal group A carbohydrate; not linked to the MHC (Stankus and Leslie, 1976). Long gestation period (2/8) (Peters 1986)\par AVN. \par Inbr. F85 (Keil Univ.). \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet: {\i c}. \par Origin: Unknown. Keil University from O Stark, Charles University, Prague. \par Characteristics\par Will grow ferridextran-induced sarcoma FEDEX-AVN (Kren et al 1970b). Low secondary antibody response to the polypeptide (T,G)-Pro-Lys (19/20) (Gunther et al 1976). Resistant to the induction of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis, slightly susceptible to adjuvent-induced arthritis (Perlik and Zidek 1974). AVN to LEW lung grafts have been used to study acute rejection (Semik et al 1994)\par AXC  \par Inbr.?. \par Colour: Agouti with white belly and feet. \par Genet.{\i  A h}{\i\up4 i}{\i .} \par Origin: A substrain of ACI. Curtiss and Dunning 1926 at the Columbia University Institute for Cancer Research. To Albert Segaloff of the Alton Ochsner Medical Foundation, New Orleans before 1956, to Southwestern Foundation for Biomedical Research in 1976. \par Characteristics\par  Median life-span 906 days in both sexes. There is a 25% incidence of moderate to severe nephropathy at 30-41 months. Pituitary adenomas in 65% of females and 10% of males, mammary adenocarcinoma in 26% of females, prostate adenocarcinomas in  23% of males older than 29 months (Gleiser and Shain 1986). Shain et al  (1986) have used this strain to study age related decreases in ventral prostate content of moderately abundant, androgen responsive proteins.\par B \par Inbr. F120. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet: {\i c.} \par Origin: Dr. P Swanson from Wistar stock now known to be King B strain, to Dempster at F43. To Harrington in 1971 at F85. \par Characteristics\par Large body size (68g at 28 days). Poor maternal instincts, and reproduction; fertile. Aggressive towards handlers. High open-field activity and (unusually) high defecation (Harrington 1981) Colony in danger of dying out (Greenhouse et al 1991).\par B/1 \par Inbr. F36 (NIH 1989).\par Origin: No further information.\par BB \par Inbr. F30. \par Colour: Albino, \par Genet. {\i c}. \par Origin: Mutation causing diabetes mellitus  in a closed colony of outbred Wistar rats at Bio-Breeding Labs, Ontario, Canada in 1974 (Chappel and Chappel 1983). To Worcester in 1977 where inbreeding began. Sublines of diabetic-prone and diabetic-resistant animals have been developed, and there are also subline differences in the incidence, age of onset, untreated survival time of diabetes, leucopenia and body weight gain which can be attributed to genetic factors (Kloting et al 1987). A detailed study of 24 inbred and two outbred lines of diabetes-prone and diabetes resistant BB rats using eight marker loci found substantial genetic variation among and some variation within some of the colonies. The 22 colonies which were apparently isogenic could be divided into four groups on the basis of the marker loci (Prins et al 1990).\par Characteristics\par Reproduction: \par average litter size at weaning 6.5 pups for diabetic-prone and 7.2 pups for the diabetic-resistant colonies. \par Lifespan and spontaneous disease\par Abrupt onset of insulin-dependent, ketosis-prone diabetes between 60 and 120 days of age. Animals exhibit lymphocyte insulinitis with virtually complete destruction of pancreatic beta cells; T cell lymphopenia; lymphocytic thyroiditis, and autoantibodies to smooth muscle, thyroid colloid, and gastric parietal cells. T cell lymphopenia is due largely to the absence of RT6+ peripheral T cell subset, including members of both helper/inducer and suppressor/cytotoxic antigenic phenotypes (Greiner et al 1986). Isolated, perfused kidneys from diabetic animals show higher basal renin release and kidney renin content than kidneys from nondiabetic controls. Renin-secretory response to beta-adrenergic stimulation impaired (Cohen et al 1986). About 32% of diabetic rats develop gastric erosions and ulcerations compared with only 10% of non-diabetic BB rats (Wright et al 1981). Further discussions of the characteristics of this model are given in Metabolism 32 no 7 suppl.1, (1983) and in Mordes et al (1987). Poly I:C accelerates the development of diabetes both in diabetes-prone and resistant substrains (Sobel et al 1992, Ewel et al 1992). The development of lymphocytic thyroiditis is not affected by iodine treatment according to Allen (1992), though Ebner et al (1992) found that it does have some affect.  Epitope specificities of collagen-induced arthritis studied by Cremer et al (1992). A lymphopenic, nondiabetic substrain BB-DR has very low T-cell numbers, depressed B-lymphocyte numbers and a complete absence of peripheral CD8+ T cells characteristics of the susceptible BB strain (Joseph et al 1993). Transfusing of BB-DR thymocytes into nude rats transfers the autoimmune insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (Whalen et al 1995). The percentage of animals getting diabetes by 200 days of age depends on the sex distribution within litters and the phenotype of the parents. A maximum liklihood model for predicting the incidence of diabetes each generation has been developed by Vogt and Kloting (1993). In-vitro study of perfused islets suggested that diabetes is due to a reduction on beta cell mass (Teruya et al 1993). Endothelin urinary excretion is increased in diabetic BB rats (Morabito et al 1994). \par Drugs and chemicals\par The sulfonylurea drug glipizide delays onset and decreases the incidence of diabetes (Hosszufalusi et al 1994).\par BBZ (reserved symbol) \par Inbr. F17 (1990). \par Origin: Strain developed by crossing BB/Wor rats, a lean model of type I diabetes mellitus with a Zucker fatty ({\i fa}) rat of unstated genetic background, followed by sib mating with forced heterozygosity for the fatty gene. Thus in each generation there is a ratio of 3:1 non-obese to obese animals. \par Characterisitcs\par This strain shares features of both parental strains. All rats are lymphopenic and about 50% develop diabetes by 120 days of age. Lean rats resemble the BB/Wor strain with  an autoimmune destruction of the pancreatic B-cells, resulting in insulin-dependent, ketosis-prone diabetes. In contrast, in homozygous fatty rats B-cell destruction is incomplete, and the obese rats do not require insulin treatment for survival. Further details are given by Guberski et al (1990)\par BC \par Inbr. F95. \par Colour: Agouti  hooded, \par{\i Genet. A, h}. \par Origin: Hagadoorn, Holland to CPB in 1949 at F15. To Utrecht in 1973. \par Characteristics\par Susceptible to audiogenic seizures (van Vliet 1977). Pup survival is only about 20% due to inadequate maternal care resulting, possibly, from susceptibility of the mother to disturbing environmental stimuli (Schiffelers and Timmermans, 1988)\par BDE \par Inbr. F27+. \par Colour: Black hooded. \par Genet: {\i a, h}. \par Origin: Zentralinstitut fur Versuchstierzucht, Hannover, from a cross between BDVII and E3, with selection for black hooded offspring. \par Characteristics\par  Low incidence of megaoesophagus/aperistalsis and microphthalmia. Animal model for adenosine-induced bronchoconstriction (Pauwels and van der Straeten 1987, Pauwels et al, 1993). Tachykinins cause bronchoconstriction in susceptible F344 mainly by an indirect mechanism that involves stimulation of NK1 receptors and mast cell activation, in contrast with the less sensitive strain BDE where they cause bronchoconstriction by a direct effect on the airway smooth muscle via activation of NK2 receptors (Joos et al, 1994).\par Used to test efficiency of AL-1576 in preventing naphthalene-induced cataract (Hockwin et al 1984).\par BDI. \par Inbr.F?+50. \par Colour: Yellow-pink-eyed. \par Genet: A,C,H,p. \par Origin: Druckrey 1937 from a yellow, pink-eyed strain.  Inbred and reduced to one pair after World War II. Crosses with Wistar stock and subsequent inbreeding led to the development of BDII. According to Druckrey (1971), strains BDIII-BDX were then developed from a cross of a single BDI x BDII mating pair, with subsequent selection for coat colour alleles. However, the strains have four different RT1 haplotypes (d, v, l and e) rather than the two that would be expected from such a cross (Stark and Zeiss 1970). The strains can {\b not} be regarded as a set of recombinant inbred strains as defined by Bailey (1971), although their definition by coat colour alleles makes the set easily identifiable , and should help (but not guarantee!) to ensure authenticity. According to Druckrey (1971), all strains have a low tumour incidence, with a median life-span of 700-950 days, depending on strain.\par BDII \par Inbr. F?+50. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet: {\i a, c, h, P.} \par Origin: See BDI. \par Characteristics\par Frequent microphthalmia. Genetic markers described for sublines of this strain in the USA differ from those in Europe, suggesting that the US sublines were contaminated at some time in the past with LEW (Czerwinski and Crowell 1986). Mean life-span of BDII/Han 33.6_4.7 months in males and 22.5_4.4 months in females, with 91% of females developing endometrial carcinomas, but with a more varied range of tumours in males. These include 26% adrenal phaeochromocytomas, 23% histiocytic sarcomas, 18% pituitary tumours and 14% haemangiomas. About 12% of aged male BDII/Han develop diverticula of the stomach (Kaspareit-Rittinghausen and Deerberg 1987). High incidence of hormone-dependent endometrial adenocarcinoma. A transplantable cell line (RUCA-II) derived from such a tumour in BDII rats can produce these tumours in ectopic sites, but only in nude mice (in contrast with RUCA-I derived from DA rats). The rate of proliferation is not reduced by tamoxifen. See also strain DA (Schutze et al, 1992). About 90% of females develop spontaneous endometrial carcinoma which can be prevented by lifelong administration of the progestin melengestrol acetate (Deerberg et al, 1995).\par BDIII \par Inbr. F? +50. \par Colour: Pink-eyed yellow, hooded. \par Genet. {\i A, C, h, p}. \par Origin: see BDI.\par BDIV \par Inbr. F? +50. \par Colour: Black hooded. \par Genet:{\i  a, C, h, P.} \par Origin: see BDI.\par BDIX. \par Inbr. F?+50. \par Colour: Agouti . \par Genet: {\i A, C, H, P.}\par Origin: see BDI. \par Characteristics  \par Strain widely used in carcinogenesis and teratogenesis studies. Highly susceptible to the transplacental induction of malignant tumours of the central nervous system by ethyl nitrosourea (Druckrey et al 1970). A transplantable monocytic-myeloid leukaemia L5222 induced by ethyl nitrosourea has been used as a model for chemotherapy (Ivankovic and Zeller 1974). Transplantable colon tumour PROb grows progressively and metastasizes, whereas REGb grows slowly and is then rejected (Blottiere et al 1992a,b). DHD/K12 colon adenocarcinoma cells also metastasize, but RC-160 acts as an inhibitor (Qin et al 1992). These models have been used to study  methods of treating peritoneal carcinoma including shockwave cavitation (Prat et al 1993) and the somatostatiin analog Lanreotide and the GRP antagonist BIM-26226 (Gouyon et al 1995). A transplantable ovarian carcinoma O-342 has been used in studies of potential chemotherapeutic use of a methotrexate-albumin conjugate (Steinmann et al 1995). Transplantable Sp-5 colorectal adenocarcinoma has been used in the study of the chemotherapeutic effects of 2'-deoxy-5-fluorouridine for pulmonary metastises (Ng et al 1995).\par Has a defect in the expression of RT1.B, apparently due to absence of structural or controling gene (Male et al 1987). The activity of C-jun, JunB, JunD, Krox-24 and C-fos in the brain shows individual patterns of expression in untreated animals (Herdegen et al 1995).\par Haematiology described by Lovell et al (1981); high MCHC (7/7), neutrophils (7/7), low lymphocytes (1/7), high monocytes (7/7), high eosinophils (7/7). Shows delayed development of the secondary centre of ossification of the epiphyses of the long bones compared with seven other strains (Stark et al, 1995).\par BDV \par Inbr. F ?+50 \par Colour: Pink-eyed, non-agouti, hooded. \par Genet: {\i a,C,h,p}. \par Origin: see BDI.\par BDVI. \par Inbr. ?+F50. \par Colour: Black\par Genet. {\i a, C, H, P.} \par Origin: see BDI.\par Characteristics\par About 4% of spontaneous peripheral nerve tumours, with cystic schwannomas being the most frequent type. The morphology and immunohistochemistry of 24 spontaneous and 28 ethylnitrosourea-induced tumours has been described by Turusov and Cabral, (1994).\par BDVII. \par Inbr. F?+50. \par Colour: Pink-eyed sandy. \par Genet: {\i a, C, H, p}. \par Origin: see BDI. Low secondary antibody response to polypeptide (T,G)-Pro-Lys (20/20) (Gunther et al 1976)\par BDVIII \par Inbr. F?+50. \par Colour: Agouti  hooded. \par Genet: {\i A, C, h, P.} \par Origin: see BDI. Occasional vaginal atresia.\par BDX  \par Inbr. F?+50. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet: {\i a, c, h, p}. \par Origin: see BDI.\par BEG  \par Inbr. F24. \par Colour: Albino, \par Genet. a, b, c, h. \par Origin: from a cross between SC and TE. Carries rexoid ragged hair gene ({\i rg}) (Noguchi et al 1990)\par BH   \par Inbr. F?+17 (Ztm 1988).\par Colour: Black-hooded,\par Genet.{\i a,h. }\par Origin: D. Wilson, University of Pennsylvania from unknown stock. To Dml, who transferred stock to University of Iowa in 1973. Dml to Won to Ztm in 1973. \par Characteristics\par Good reproductive performance; average litter size 7.0_3.2 young (Gartner, unpublished). Has been used with LEW and congenic strains to define RT6 and RT7 (Wonigeit 1979, Lubaroff et al 1979, Ely et al 1983, Lubaroff et al 1985). Resistant to the induction of experimeental allergic encephalomyelitis due to genes unlinked to the MHC (Gasser et al 1978, Wonigeit 1979, Gasser et al 1983). Glomerular inflitration rate 2.44 ml/min and renal plasma flow of 3.55 ml/min in BH compared in several strains (Hackbarth et al 1981). Haematology also studied by Hackbarth et al (1983). RT1{\up4 lv3} (Wonigeit et al 1979). Females are extremely sensitive to pentobarbital, which is lethal at 40mg/Kg (Vieregge et al 1987).\par BI. \par Origin: Formerly called B3, but now extinct. Slow elimination of {\i Trichinella spiralis} worms (11/12) (Bell, 1992)\par BIL/1 and BIL/2\par Inbr. F30 (Pit, 1992). \par Colour: Dilute cinnamon-hooded. \par Genet: ?. \par Origin: University of Pittsburgh from a mutation in a colony of unknown background held by the NIH. \par Characteristics\par BIL/1 carries growth and reproduction mutation (grc) which is also associated with incresed sensitivity to chemical carcinogens and is associated with the RT1 locus, and maintained by forced heterozygosity (RT1{\up4 l,n}). It is due to a 70kb deletion within the RT1 complex, and defects are probably due to loss of genes in this segment of chromosome. BIL/2 is a normal control (Vardimon et al, 1992). \par BIRMA \par Inbr. F27+ \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet: {\i c}. \par Origin: AM Mandl 1952 from Albino rats purchased from Birmingham market.\par BIRMB \par Inbr. F25. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet: {\i c}. \par Origin, same as BIRMA.\par BLK  \par Inbr. F21 (NIH 1989) \par Colour: Black,\par Genet.{\i  a, B, C, H}.\par BN   \par Inbr. F71 (Pit). \par Colour: Brown. \par Genet. {\i a, b, h}{\i\up4 i}{\i .} \par Origin:  Billingham and Silvers 1958, from a brown mutation maintained by DH King and P Aptekman in a pen-bred colony (Billingham and Silvers 1959).  A plasma kininogen-deficient mutant strain (BN/Ka) has been described  in which release of heat-induced substance P is defective (Tang et al, 1994) and response to the hypertensive effects of deoxycorticosterone acetate salt is much faster than in normal BN rats (Majima et al, 1995a,b).\par Characteristics\par Behaviour\par Can not be triggered into paradoxical sleep by dark pulse stimulation (ie. turning off the lights), in contrast with LEW (Leung et al, 1992). Higher precentage of paradoxical sleep than LEW (Rosenberg et al 1987). Low preference for ethanol and low capability to develop acute tolerance to ethanol hypnosis (York et al, 1994). Behavioural performance declined less rapidly with aging than in strain F344 (Spangler et al, 1994).\par Pathology and spontaneous disease\par Endocardial disease 7% at an average age of 31 months (Boorman et al 1973). Tumours of epithelium 28% in males, 2% in females. Ureter tumours 20% in females, 6% in males. Estimated median life-span more than 24 months in males and more than 25 months in females (Boorman and Hollander 1974).\par Median lifespan 29 months in males (n=74) and 31 months in females (n=236). Most common neoplastic lesions in males were urinary bladder carcinoma 35%, pancreas islet adenoma 15%, pituitary adenoma 14%, lymphoreticular sarcoma 14%, adrenal cortex adeneoma 12%, medullary thyroid carcinoma 9%, adrenal pheochromocytoma 8%. Four other types of tumours were observed. In females: pituitary adenoma 26%, ureter carcinoma 22%, adrenal cortical adenoma 19%, cervix sarcoma 15%, mammary gland fibroadenoma 11%, islet adenoma 11%. Twelve other tumour types were observed (Burek and Hollander 1975a).\par The chance of death from metastases increased with age in females, but reaches a peak at 25-30 months in males (Burek and Hollander 1975b). The cervical and vaginal tumours have been studied in more detail by Burek et al (1975a), and further details of an aging colony are given by Hollander (1976) and Burek and Hollander (1977). Vaginal and cervical tumours, mostly sarcomas but also seven squamous-cell carcinomas and four leiomyomas, were seen in 20% of animals that died naturally (Burek et al 1976). High incidence (31%) of hydronephrosis reported in 2-month-old BN/Bi (Cohen et al 1970), but little seen by Gray et al (1982) before 30 months, after which the disease progressed slowly. A high incidence was observed at all ages by Spangler et al (1994).\par Drugs and chemicals\par Dimethylbenzanthracene induced a transplantable myeloid leukaemia (Colly and Hagenbeek 1977). Intermediate susceptibility to pentobarbital sodium (3/7) with LD{\dn4 50} of 90mg/kg (Shearer et al 1973). \par Immunology\par Resistant to induction of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (1/7) (Gasser et al 1975, McFarlin et al 1975a,b). However, resistance can be modulated by endogenous corticosteroids (Peers et al, 1995). Resistant to induction of autologous immune compex glomerulonephritis (Strenglein et al 1975). Like strain MAXX, but in contrast to 17 other strains BN is susceptible to the development of mercury-induced autoimmunity to renal basement membranes with the development of membraneous glomerulonephritis (Henry et al 1988). Susceptible to the autoimmune effects of mercury showing a decrease of peripheral RT6.2(+) T lymphocytes compared with strain LEW (Kosuda et al 1994), but no release of hydrogen peroxide in peritoneal polymorphonuclear leukocytes and macrophages in contrast with LEW (Contrino et al, 1992). Susceptible to the development of autoimmunity to skin-injected HgCl{\dn4 2 }, in contrast to LEW (Warfvinge and Larsson, 1994). Develop a T-helper 2 cell-mediated autoimmune syndrome following treatment with mercuric chloride, gold or D-penicillamine which amy be associated with the response of mast cells (Oliveira et al, 1995)\par Moderately sensitive to the development of experimental glomerulonephritis following injection of nephritogenic antigen from bovine renal basement membrane  (Naito et al, 1991)\par Develops severe experimental allergic encephalomyelitis when immunised with rat spinal cord and carbonyl iron adjuvent (Levine and Sowinski 1975). Linington et al (1986) induced experimental allergic neuritis using T-cells and bovine P2 (a peripheral nerve myelin protein). Resistant to the induction of Haymann nephritis (Badalamenti et al 1987). High IgE response to Japanese Cedar pollen antigen (1/7): may be a useful model for studying physiological and pathological changes in the nose after pollen challenge (Imaoka et al, 1993). Resident macrophages (ramified microglea) of the central nervous system are constitutively major histocompatibility complex class-II positive, in contrast with LEW (Sedgwick et al, 1993). Following lethal irradiation and re-constitution with syngeneic bone marrow and given cyclosporin A for several weeks LEW rats will develop cyclosporin-induced autoimmunity after withdrawal of the cyclosporin. The condition resembles graft-versus host disease in terms of acute dermatitis and chronic scleroderma. However, BN rats do not develop this disease (Wodzig et al, 1993). Resistant to the induction of experimental autoimmune uveoretinitis and endotoxin-induced uveitis which appears to be associated with the production of tumour necrosis factor (TNF) by retinal Muller glia and retinal pigmented epithelium. Strain LEW is susceptible (Dekozak et al, 1994). Susceptible to the induction of proteinuria following treatment with the monoclonal antibody 5-6-1, like LEW and outbred Wistar, but unlike resistant outbred Sprague-Dawley rats which were also resistant to glomerular damage (Gollner et al, 1995).\par  Low antibody response to phytohaemagglutinin, concanavalin A and streptococcal group A carbohydrate (Koch 1976, Stankus and Leslie 1976, Williams et al 1973). Good (1/5) antibody response to a synthetic 20 amino acid peptide derived from the alpha helical region of the RT1-D-u beta chain (Murphy et al, 1994).\par Infection\par Resistant to the induction of encephalitis by coronavirus, with a much shorter delay in lymphocyte proliferation following infection than in the susceptible LEW strain (Imrich et al, 1994).\par  Low plasma ceruloplasmin levels (Stolc 1984) Low fertility. Somewhat vicious. Poor performance in an active avoidance learning task (4/4), but good reference memory (Van Luijtelaar et al 1988).\par\par BP \par Inbr. F58+. \par Colour: Black Irish hooded. \par Genet: {\i a, h}{\i\up4 i}{\up4} . \par Origin: Prof. Sekla. Strain selected for resistance to Walker 256 tumour. \par Characteristics\par  Low fertility. Adult spleen cells highly effective in indiction of GVH reaction in newborn, but newborn resistant to GVH reaction. Strain carries unusual array of genetic markers (Festing and Bender 1984)\par BROFO \par Inbr. F28. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet: {\i c}. \par Origin: Medical Biological Laboratory, Defence Research Organisation, The Netherlands. Large Wistar type of rat maintained in germ-free and SPF conditions.\par BS \par Inbr. F41 (1988). \par Colour: Black. \par Genet: {\i a}. \par Origin: University of Otago Medical School from a cross of wild rats x Wistar stock, with black phenotype backcrossed to the Wistar (Zeiss 1966). \par Characteristics\par  Docile. Fair reproduction. Low incidence of hydrocephalus. Vieregge et al (1987) found a long pentobrbitone sleeping time in females (2/10) but a short time in males (8/10). Has deficient release of prolactin after stressful stimuli, which may be associated with a deficit in vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and peptide histidine isoleucine in fibres associated with the portal vessels at the median eminence level (Ceccatelli et al, 1992).\par BUF \par Inbr. F130 (NIH 1989). \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet: {\i a, h, c.} \par Origin: Heston 1946 from Buffalo stock of H. Morris. To NIH in 1950 at F10. \par Characteristics\par Lifespan and spontaneous disease\par Low incidence of dental caries. Spontaneous tumours of anterior pituitary 30%, and of adrenal cortex 25% in older animals. Survival 58% at 2 years of age with thyroid carcinoma in 25% (Lindsey et al 1968). Low incidence of renal neoplasms (Snell 1967). High incidence of tumours of the anterior pituitary, adrenal medulla and adrenal cortex in animals over 18 months old (Snell 1965). In one line, BUF/Mna, thymomas occur spontaneously in 100% of males and 98% of females more than 18 months of age (Matasuyama et al 1986). Susceptibility appears to be due to a single autosomal dominant locus, {\i Tsr-1}. However, this line was reported to have been independently inbred from outbred stock so may be genetically distinct from other BUF substrains (Matsuyama et al 1988). Thymoma development appears to be due to an intrinsic abnormality of the thymic epithelium as thymus rudiments transplanted to nude rats also develop similar lesions (Taguchi et al, 1992).  Abnormal proliferation signals to the thymic macrophages and/or their progenitor cells may be involved in the development of thymomas (Masuda et al 1992). At the pre-thymoma stage BUF rats have extremely large thymuses due to a gene {\i Ten-1} located on chromosome 1. This gene may be identical to {\i Tsr-1} (Murakumo et al, 1993, 1995).\par High incidence of prenatal mortality (1/8=18%) early and (2/11=11%) late, but no congenital abnormalities detected (Shoji 1977). \par Immunology\par Autoimmune thyroiditis see in 6/11 males at 36 weeks of age, but not seen in five other strains (Hajdu and Rona 1969). Spontaneous autoimmune thyroiditis  with mononucelear cell infiltration of the thyroid in 26% of animals over one year (Noble et al 1976). Autoimmune thyroiditis develops spontaneously and after the ingestion of 3-methylcolanthrene, but reaches nearly 100% after neonatal thymectomy (Silverman and Rose 1975a,b). Autoimmune thyroiditis is exacerbated by high iodine diet (Cohen and Weetman 1988). Poor immune response to sheep red blood cells (6/7) (Tada et al 1974). Epitope specificities of collagen-induced  studied by Cremer et al (1992). Relatively resistant to the induction of autologous immune complex nephritis (Klassen et al 1971). Poor immune response to sheep red blood cells (Tada et al 1974). A synthetic polypeptide corresponding to residues 87-99 of myelin basc protein is antigenic and encephalitogenic in these rats (Jones et al, 1992). Susceptible to the induction of  EAU by interphotoreceptor retinol-binding protein  (cf WKAH, W/M, LEJ and LEW, but in contrast with TO) (Sasamoto et al, 1994). Susceptible to the induction of relapsing experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (an animal model of multiple sclerosis), which can be successfully treated by an allogeneic bone marrow transplant (Van Gelder and Van Bekkum, 1995).\par Drugs and chemicals\par Transplantable Morris hepatomas have been induced by several chemical agents (Morris and Wagner 1968, Morris et al 1970, Morris and Slaughter 1979). 2-acetylaminofluorine induces liver tumours in 10% of female and 70% of males and mammary tumours in 70% of females (Symeonidis 1954).\par Low hepatic metabolism of ethylmorphine (7/10 im males 10/10 in females), but high metabolism of anilene (3/10 males, 1/10 females) (Page and Vesell 1969).  Resistant to the induction of gastric tumours by N-methyl-N-nitro- N-nitrosoguanidine (Ohgaki et al 1983). Resistant to tumour induction by 3-methylcholanthrene, 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene and trypan blue, though the former two and {\i Bordetella pertussis} vaccine induce chronic thyroiditis (Reuber and Glover 1969, 1976). Resistant to the development of N-methyl-N'-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG) induced gastric cancer though levels of adduct were same as in the susceptible ACI strain (Sugimura et al 1995). \par Reproduction\par Intermediate breeding performance (5/12) and litter size (8/12) (Hansen et al 1973). \par Physiology and Biochemistry\par Liver gangliosides are of the a-type (cf ACI, LEA & LEW) (Kasai et al 1993).\par  High 10-week body weight in males (23/23) (Tanase et al 1982).  \par Infection\par Rapid elimination of {\i Trichinella spiralis} worms (1/12) (Bell, 1992)\par C  \par Inbr. F22 (NIH 1989). \par Origin: No further information.\par CAP\par Inbr.F85 (1986). \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet: {\i a, h}. \par Origin: Polish Academy of Sciences, Krakow (Stark et al 1968a).\par CAR \par Inbr. F108 (N, 1988). \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet: c. \par Origin: Hunt 1937, developed for resistance to dental caries (Hunt et al 1955). \par Characteristics\par Poor reproductive performance (19/12) and low litter size (9/12). Dislikes handling (Hansen et al 1973). Takes longer to develop dental caries, and incidence of {\i Streptococcus salivarius} and lactobacilli lower than in CAS (Hunt et al 1955).Susceptible to the induction of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (Gasser et al 1975).\par CAS \par Inbr. F38+?. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet: {\i c}. \par Origin: Hunt 1937, developed for high incidence of dental caries. \par Characteristics\par Poor reproductive performance (12/12) and low litter size (12/12) (Hansen et al 1973). See also CAR.\par CBH \par Inbr. F73+ (1985). \par Colour: Black hooded \par Genet{\i . a, B, C, h. }\par Origin: Woodruff, Edinburgh to Chester Beatty Inst., Fulham Road, to Chemical Defense Establishment, Porton in 1963. Then to Chester Beatty, Pollards Wood in 1966. To Olac in 1980 when the strain was re-named CBH (Chester Beatty Hooded). Good reproductive performance.\par COP \par Inbr.F49 (Pcr 1988). \par Colour: Black hooded. \par Genet: {\i a, h.} \par Origin: Curtiss 1921 at Columbia University  Institute for Cancer Research. \par Characteristics\par Lifespan and spontaneous disease\par Mean life-span 20_0.2 months (but this figure is probably unreliable by modern standards).  Spontaneous tumours of the thymus (Dunning and Curtis 1946, Dunning et al 1947)\par Drugs and chemicals \par Slow absorption of diethylstilboestrol leading to death from bladder calculi and papillomas (Dunning and Curtis 1946, Dunning et al 1947). Resistant to mammary tumour induction by 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene at doses which in strains OM, NSD, WF, LEW and BUF were highly susceptible. This is inherited as a dominant characteristic and appears to be a property of the mammary gland rather than a systemic effect (Isaacs 1988).   Also highly resistant to the induction of mammary cancer following exposure to dust of 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)-anthracene powder applied directly to exposed mammary tissue, in contrast with WF (Takahashi et al, 1992). Subtractive hybridization using COP and WF mRNAs suggested that three genes (alpha-casein, lipoprotein lipase and an unidentified gene)  were over-expressed in COP mammary gland. Northern analysis also suggested that beta and gamma-casein genes were also over-expressed in resistant WKY and COP, but not in susceptible F344, WF or SD strains (Hsu and Gould, 1993).\par Miscellaneous\par Small pituitaries (Dunning et al 1947). Resistant to Cysticercus. Will grow transplantable tumours IRS 4337 and R3327 prostate adenocarcinoma, which is a model of human prostate cancer (Lubaroff et al 1977). Low antibody response to streptococcal group A carbohydrate; not linked to the MHC (Stankus and Leslie 1976). Resistant to the development of experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (2/9) (Biesecker and Koffler 1988). Epitope specificities of collagen-induced arthritis studied by Cremer et al (1992)\par CPB-WE \par Inbr. F?. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i c}. \par Origin: Wistar outbred rats inbred at the Central Institute for Breeding of Laboratory Animals, Zeist, The Netherlands. High incidence of hydrocephalus accompanied by optic tract lesions and microphthalmia (van Eden and Mullink 1986, personal communication).\par CPB-B re-named BC.\par CRDH (Reserved symbol)\par Inbr.Approx. 18 (1995). \par Colour: Albino .\par Genet. c.  \par Origin: As {\b}{\b\i C}{\i} ohen {\b}{\b\i R}{\i} osenthal {\b}{\b\i D}{\i} iabetic {\b}{\b\i H}{\i} ypertensive, from a cross between strains CDR and SHR followed by selection for high blood pressure and blood glucose levels following two-months of feeding a  copper-poor, high (74%) sucrose diet. Selected animals were brother x sister mated (Cohen et al, 1993, Rosenthal et al 1995). \par Characteristics: \par Non-insulin-dependent overt diabetes: blood glucose 384_134 mg/dl (plasma insulin at 60 min following intragastric glucose load 83.3_10.2\cf0 m\cf2 U/mL) and hypertension blood pressure 176_8mm Hg. There was severe diffuse diabetic glomerulosclerosis and severe hypertensive changes in arteries and arterioles characterised by fibrinoid necrosis and/or "onion skin" lesions as well as smooth muscle hyperplasia. Myocardial changes were prominent, with foci of ischemic necrosis and hyperplastic vascular changes (see above references).\par CWS \par Inbr. F55 (Idr 1991). \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i A, B, c, h.} \par Origin: R Shoji from a cross of an outbred Jcl:SD rat with spontaneous cataract and WKAH inbred rats. Subsequent brother x sister mating with selecting for cataract resulted in all offspring from the 3rd. generation developing cataract accompanied by microphthalmia which can be observed from the day that the eyes open. \par Characteristics\par Examination with a slit-lamp microscope shows an adhesion abnormality of the iris on the outside of the lens in abnormal eyes. The character is caused by a single authsomal recessive gene designated {\i cms} (cataract, microphthalmia and posterior synechia) (Shoji et al 1988).\par DA  \par Inbr.F77 (Han 1989). \par Colour: Agouti . \par Genet. {\i  A, C, H}. \par Origin: Developed from stock of unstated origin by Dr. T.T. Odell, Jr. at Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Tennessee to F11, then by Dr. Darcy Wilson at the Wistar Institute, who named it DA because it expressed the {\i d} blood group allele of Joy Palm, and it is {\i a}gouti in colour (Wilson 1965). Inbreeding was completed in about 1965. Although Palm and Black (1971) suggest it may be related to COP, there is no real evidence that this is the case. \par Characteristics:\par Lifespan and spontaneous disease\par Urinary bladder tumours 54% in males and 14% in females, with a peak incidence at 25-30 months of age (Deerberg et al 1985). High incidence of hormone-dependent endometrial adenocarcinoma. A transplantable cell line (RUCA-I) derived from such a tumour in DA rats can produce these tumours in ectopic sites. The rate of proliferation is reduced by tamoxifen, and this cell line appears to be a suitable model for the study of molecular aspects of estrogen and tamoxifen-dependent gene expression. See also strain BDII/Han (Schutze et al, 1992). Urolithiasis found in 2/78 female rats at an average age of 118 days (Kunstyr et al 1982).\par Biochemistry and physiology\par Possible model for deficiency of  debrisoquine hydroxylation due to a lack of Cyp2D1 activity, which is equivalent to human Cyp2D6 (Al-Dabbagh et al 1981), with the defect being due to a structurally altered db1 protein (Gonzalez et al 1987).  At least one other isoform of P450 of the Cyp2C or Cyp3A families may also be missing. Although DA rats may be used as a preliminary screen to identify Cyp2D6 substrates, interspecies differences in metabolism means that this strain could not be used to provide quantitative information regarding the contribution of Cyp2D6 to an oxidation in humans (Barham et al, 1994)\par Defective bile acid transport found in females, which may be related to  deficient debrisoquine hydroxylation (Reichen et al 1986). Hackbarth et al (1981) have described the glomerular filtration rate and renal plasma flow in DA and other strains, and haematological parameters and their relation to diet have been described by Hackbarth et al (1983).  In studies of food intake and body weight gain, DA rats ingested mainly proteins and fats, in contrast with outbred Wistar rats which ate about equal quantities of fat, protein and carbohydrate (Larueachagiotis et al, 1994).\par Reproduction\par Short gestation period (1/8) (Peters 1986). \par Drugs and chemicals\par Susceptible (1/7) to the development of  4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide induced  squamous cell carcinomas of the tongue, with high proliferative response of the tongue epithelium (contrast WF) (Kitano et al, 1992).\par Immunology\par Susceptible to the induction of autoimmune thyroiditis (Rose 1975). Develop severe collagen-induced arthritis following immunisation with bovine, chick or rat type II collagens. This is exacerbated by infection with rat cytomegalovirus. However, the congenic strain DA.1N(BN) is much more resistant (Griffiths et al, 1994). Develops arthritis after injection of Freund's incomplete adjuvent alone (oil-induced arthritis, OIA). This is a self-limiting acute disease whereas collagen-induced arthritis follows a chronic course (Holmdahl and Kvick, 1992, 1994). DA is sensitive whereas LEW are relatively resistant (Holmdahl et al, 1992). A strong local expression of TNF-alpha, induced by arthritogenic stimuli may be important for the induction of arthritis (Mussener et al, 1995). Susceptible to the development of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis upon treatment with a myelin basic protein-specific T cell line derived from an F1 hybrid between resistant AO and susceptible DA strain rats (Mostaricastrojkovic et al, 1992). Although DA and LEW are both highly susceptible to the development of EAE, there are marked differences in the array of myelin epitopes capable of inducing the disease as well as MHC restriction of these epitopes between the two strains (Stepaniak et al, 1995).\par Resistant to the development of experimental glomerulonephritis following injection of nephritogenic antigen from bovine renal basement membrane (10/10) (Naito et al, 1991).  Met-enkephalin increased H{\dn4 2}O{\dn4 2} production by macrophages (contrast AO) (Radulovic et al, 1995). \par Infection\par Infection with {\i Hymenolepsis diminuata} cysticercoids results in significant mastocytosis six weeks post infection and low persistance of worms, in contrast with F344, where there was no worm loss and no mastocytosis (Ishih, 1992, 1994).\par Dahl R and Dahl S (Mollegard) \par Origin: see SR and SS and also DSS/1 to DSS/3\par DB \par Inbr.F20 (NIH 1989) \par Dilute brown. \par Origin: No further information.\par DEBR Reserved symbol. \par Inbr. >F15. \par Colour: Hooded. \par Genet. ?  \par Origin: Dr. Roy F. Oliver, Dept. of Biological Sciences, University of Dundee. A possible animal model for human alopecia areata, with hair loss associated with marked peri-and intra-bulbar lymphocytic infiltrate (Michie et al 1991, Sainsbury et al, 1991, Oliver et al, 1991).\par DONRYU \par Inbr: F59+?. \par Colour: Albino: \par Genet. {\i c}. \par Origin: R. Sato 1950 by inbreeding Japanese albino rats. \par Characteristics\par Lifespan and spontaneous disease\par Spontaneous tumours 74% in males at 120-weeks, mostly pituitary adenomas, phaeochromocytomas and insulinomas. In females incidence 89%, mostly uterine adenocarcinomas, mammary fibroadenomas and pituitary adenomas. Non-neoplastic lesions in 120 week old males and females seen most commonly in the lung, cervical lymph nodes and kidneys (Maekawa et al 1986). Histiocytic sarcoma seen in 5.3% of males and 4.2% of females (Ogasawara et al, 1993). High incidence of endometrial cancer which can be inhibited by feeding indole-3-carbinol (present in cruceriferous vegitables). This may be due to the induction of estradiol 2-hydroxylation (Kojima et al, 1994). Intra-uterine administration of 20 mg/kg N-ethyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine dissolved in polyethylene glycol resulted in  49% endometrial carcinomas, suggesting that this rat strain provides a good animal model for endometrial adenocarcinoma in women (Andolu et al, 1994, Takahashi et al, 1995). Spontaneous endometrial cancer develops from early histological changes first observed at about six months of age associated with persistant estrus, with endometrial  hyperplasia being observed at eight months. At 12 months severe hyperplasia was observed and adenocarcinomas developed from about 15 months (Nagaoka et al, 1994)\par Miscellaneous\par Mild nature, relatively small size. Will accept 100% transplantable Yoshida sarcoma and ascites hepatoma (Satoh, 1964, Odashima, 1964). {\i Corynebacterium liquefaciens} induces a marked resistance to challenge with ascites hepatoma (Suzuki et al 1977). \par DSS/1 to DSS/3. \par Inbr. F21, F20 and F23, respectively. \par Colour: Albino \par Genet.{\i  c}.\par Origin: Three inbred strains developed from outbred Sprague-Dawley stock selected for sensitivity to sodium chloride-induced hypertension (Dahl et el 1962a, b). Inbred by Iwai and then Hansen (N). \par Characteristics\par Sensitive to salt-induced hypertension. Should not be confused with SS and SR developed by Dr. John Rapp (see also SS/Jr). A congenic strain resulting from the backcrossing of the "corpulent" ({\i cp}) or (more correctly) fatty-Koletsky ({\i fa}{\i\up4 K}{\up4} ) gene onto the DSS genetic background has been described and designated DSS/N-cp by Michaelis et al (1995).\par DXE -1-?\par Inbr. ?.\par Origin: Set of 4 recombinant inbred strains from a cross between DA and E3 (Central Institute, Hannover)\par E3 \par Inbr. F55+?. \par Colour: Fawn hooded. \par Genet:{\i  a, C, h, r. }\par Origin: Kr\'9aning, G\'9attingen from rats of unknown origin selected for fawn hooded phenotype, to Hannover 1957 at F16. To Gottschewski in 1964, then back to Hannover in 1968. \par Characteristics\par Has platelet storage disease associated with the red-eyed yellow locus, as described by Raymond and Dodds (1975) for the FH strain. (Hedrich, unpublished).\par EXBH \par Inbr. F27 (Han, 1989). \par Colour: Cream. \par Genet.:{\i  a, b, C, H, P, r}. \par Origin: Hannover as a recombinant inbred strain from a cross between E3 and BN. Developed as a coat colour testing stock. Low reproductive performance (Greenhouse et al 1990)\par F344 \par Inbr.F155. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i c}. \par Origin: Curtiss and Dunning 1920 at Columbia University Institute for Cancer Research,To Heston 1949 (Billingham and Silvers 1959). To National Institutes of Health in 1951 (Hansen et al 1982). Subsequent sublines from Dunning or NIH. This is easily the most widely used general-purpose inbred rat strain, being particularly favoured for cancer research and toxicology. There is now considerable background information on strain characteristics, including life-span, spontaneous diseases and response to chemicals.\par Characteristics\par Anatomy\par Unlike seven other strains it does not develop brownish skin scales on the dorsum of the body, the perineum and the tail (Tayama and Shisa 1994). Low relative heart weight in 10-week old males (2/23) (Tanase et al 1982).\par Behaviour\par Low open field defaecation (10/12) in  males (Harrington 1972). Low wheel activity (11/12 females, 8/12 females) (Harringtom 1971b). Moderately easy to handle. Good breeding performance (1/12) and large litter size (1/12) (Hansen et al 1973). Low response to operant morphine-reinforced behaviour (4/4) (Ambrosio et al 1995). Low preference for ethanol and low capability to develop acute tolerance to ethanol hypnosis, like BN (York et al, 1994). Behavioural performance declined more rapidly with aging than in strain BN (Spangler et al, 1994). Develops smaller acoustic and tactile startle response than strain LEW, which may be associated with strain differences in hypothalmic-pituitary-adrenal activation (Glowa et al,1992). Unusual in its lack of preference for any concentration of salt. However, there is a dramatic change from aversion to preference following transection  of the chorda tympani nerve, which in other strains causes little change in salt preference (Sollars and Bernstein, 1994). A preference can be induced by depletion of sodium chloride (Breslin et al, 1995).\par Life-span and spontaneous disease\par Life-span and tumour incidence depend both on strain characteristics and the environment. The following has been reported: Median lifespan about 31 months in males and 29 months in females with about 87% survival to 24 months in both sexes. (Sass et al 1975). Cameron et al (1985) found a 75% survival at 26 months of age, and Cameron et al (1982) reported a median life-span of 31.5 months in males. Mean lifespan 24 months in both sexes in presence of severe pulmonary infection (Davey and Moloney 1970). Median life-span 23-31 months in barrier-reared males and 26-29 months in barrier-reared females  (Sass et al 1975, Coleman et al 1977, Jacobs and Huseby 1967, Hoffman 1979, Yu et al 1982). Food restriction to 60% of ad-libitum prolongs median life-span to more than 34 months in males (Yu et al 1982), but food restriction limited to early life and protein restriction caused only a small increase in longevity (Yu et al 1985). Other studies of life-span and neoplasia include Soleveld et al (1984) and Maekawa et al (1983). Most animals older than 2 years exhibit small local areas of nephritis; less than 25% show severe nephritis (Snell 1967).\par Tumours: Mammary tumours 41% in females and 23% in males, pituitary adenomas 36% in females and 24% in males, testicular interstitial cell tumours 85% in males. Other tumour types less common (Sass et al 1975). Thyroid carcinoma 22% (Lindsey et al 1968). Interstitial cell testicular tumours 65%, mononuclear cell leukaemia 24%, subcutaneous fibroadenoma 9% in females. Both sexes have a 5% incidence of nodular hyperplasia of the liver. (Davey and Moloney 1970). In various studies incidence of leukaemias 23-26% and of testicular intersticial tumours 65-90% (Jacobs and Huseby 1967, Davey and Moloney 1970, Moloney et al 1970, Sass et al 1975, Cockrell and Garer 1976). Uterine polyploid tumours of endometrial origin 21% (Jacobs and Huseby 1967). In germ-free conditions leukaemia 26% in males, 36% in females, mammary tumours 12% in males 20% in females, all other tumours 9% in males, 5% in females (Sacksteder 1976).\par Pathology of aged animals extensively characterised by Coleman et al (1977), Goodman et al (1979) and Dent et al (1980). Aged rats exhibit peripheral retinal degeneration which is exacerbated by fluorescent light of moderate intensity (32 foot-candles). They also develop cardiomyopathy with myocardial degeneration, fibrosis and chronic intersticial myocarditis (males 33%, females 18%) and nephropathy (67% in males, 39% in females) (Lai et al 1979). Retinas of both sexes show a steady decline with age in the thickness of the outer nuclear layer and photoreceptor layer, with a drastically accelerated rate of peripheral retinal degeneration seen only in males after 12 months of age (Diloreto et al, 1994, see also Faktorovich et al, 1992).\par Drugs and chemicals\par The F344 strain has been used in nearly 400 2-year National Cancer Institute/National Toxicology Program (NCI/NTP) toxicity/carcinogenicity studies which are individually reported in the NCI/NTP Technical Report series. The resulting material, involving data on over 100,000 rats is preserved at the NTP Archives. These include over eight million histological slides, and a corresponding number of paraffin blocks and residual formalin-fixed tissue. The archive is computerised so that individual lesions can be located for retrospective study. A detailed account of the pathology of F344 rats, which is based largely on this material is given by Boorman et al (1990).\par Neurological toxicity of polybrominated biphynals and acrylamide described by Tilson et al (1978) and Tilson and Cabe (1979a,b). Low biliary excretion of copper after intravenous injection of CuSO{\dn4 4} (4/4) (Nederbragt and Lagerwerf 1986).  Susceptible to the induction of tumours of the tongue by 4-nitroquinoline-1-oxide (Tanaka et al 1993). Susceptible to the development of anaplastic astrocytomas and glioblastomas following treatment with N-methyl-N-nitrosourea in the drinking water (Shibutani et al 1993). Isolated tracheal rings hyperresponsive to carbachol compared with LEW and F344 (Jia et al 1995). Realtively insensitive to the induction of tumours by N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU) following treatment with cyproterone acetate which caused a high incidence of tumours in the outbred Cpb:WU strain (Bosland et al, 1992a). However, treatment with cyproproterone acetate for 21 days, testosterone proprionate for three days and a single i.p. injection of MNU results in atypical hyperplasia of the ventral prostate (Bosland et al, 1992b).\par Severity of spontaneous nephropathy in aged rats reduced by treatment with arylsulfonylurea (Milman et al 1979).  Exposure of weanling rats to terephthalic acid or dimethyl terephthalate in the diet induced urolithiasis (Wolkowski et al 1982). Phenylketonurea can be induced by p-Chloro-DL-phenylalanine with L-phenylalanine (Andersen and Guroff 1974, Anderson 1982). Bleomycin induces pulmonary fibrosis, which can be reduced by treatment with indomethacin (Thrall et al 1979) . Treatment with 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMAB) provides the best model for prostatic cancer of five tested (Shirai et al 1990). Slow metaboliser of MPPB (LEW is fast) (Takahara et al 1993). Morphene does not increase nose-poking behaviour, and phenobarbital does not decreases it, in contrast with strain NBR (Witkin and Goldberg, 1992). Compared with LEW rats, F344 show a much lower preference for several classes of drugs of abuse. This may be associated with levels of neurofilament proteins in the ventral tegmental area of the brain (Guitart et al, 1992). Duration of morphine-induced EEG slow-wave bursts and associated behavioural stupor was less in F344 than in LEW  (Myomichelson and Young, 1993). F344 rats self-administer less morphine than LEW rats (Gosnell and Krahn, 1993). Duration of EEG slow-wave bursts and behavioural stupor also shorter in F344 than in LEW  following administration of ethylketocyclazocine, suggesting differences in opioid-related receptor populations between these strains (Mayomichelson and Young, 1993). Resistant (1/4) to the organophosphate diisopropyl fluorophosphate (DFP)  in terms of hypothermic response and recovery of day-night difference in core temperature (Gordon and Watkinson, 1995).\par Resistant (compared with Sprague-Dawley rats) to the ventricular hypertrophy and pressure changes induced by monocrotaline. This is associated with pulmonary vascular response rather than hepatic metabolism (Pan et al, 1993).\par Oral administration of hydroquinone for two years resulted in dose-related nephropathy and renal tubule adenomas in males but not females, whereas Sprague-Dawley rats were resistant (English et al, 1994). Sensitive to the convulsive effects of kainic acid (2/4) (Golden et al, 1995). Relatively resistant (1/3) to carcinogenic effects of tamoxifen, possibly associated with reduced cell proliferation in the liver (Carthew et al, 1995).\par Immunology\par Resistant to spontaneous autoimmune thyroiditis (Hajdu and Rona 1969), but susceptible to experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (Gasser et al 1975), experimental allergic neuritis (Levine and Wenk 1968), and autologous immune complex nephritis (Watson and Dixon 1966). Relatively insensitive to the induction of experimental autoimmune glomerulonephritis (4/4, cf WKY)(Sado et al 1986). Susceptible to the development of experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (8/9) (Biesecker and Koffler 1988).  Resistant to the induction of thyroiditis by 3-methylcholanthrene (Glover et al 1969). Resistant to group A {\i Streptococcus pyogenes} and {\i Lactobacillus casei}-induced chronic polyarthritis (Lehman et al 1984). Epitope specificities of collagen-induced arthritis studied by Cremer et al (1992). Normally resistant to the development of adjuvent arthritis, but germ-free F344 rats are susceptible, and the use of paraffin oil rather than mineral oil also induces susceptibility (Vandelangerijt et al, 1993).\par Low antibody response to streptococcal group A carbohydrate, not linked to the MHC (Stankus and Leslie 1976). Neonatal pancreatic islets derived by non-enzymic (in vitro) isolation procedures can be transplanted across MHC barriers without any immune suppression, in contrast with other strains such as ACI (Ketchum et al, 1992). Tachykinins cause bronchoconstriction in susceptible F344 mainly by an indirect mechanism that involves stimulation of NK1 receptors and mast cell activation, in contrast with the less sensitive strain BDE where they cause bronchoconstriction by a direct effect on the airway smooth muscle via activation of NK2 receptors (Joos et al, 1994).\par Low primary and secondary response to sheep red blood cells (7/7)(Tada et al 1974). Poor producers of reaginic antibody in response to ovalbumin in aluminium hydroxide (Murphy et al 1974). Bouleter and Sell (1985) have described the alphafetoprotein and albumin genes and compared these with ACI andf BUF. Haematology; high RBC (7/7), Hb (6/7), PCV (6/7), and  monocytes (6/7), but low MCV (1/7), MCH (1/7), MCHC (2/7) (Lovell et al 1981). See also Festing et al (1984).\par Biochemistry and physiology\par Growth described by Cameron et al (1985). Resistant to the development of salt-induced hypertension (Hall et al 1976). High specific activity but low inducibility of NADP cytochrome C reductase compared with outbred Sprague-Dawley rats (Gold and Widnell 1975). Hepatic microsomal activity before and after induction by phenobarbitone well characterised (Page and Vesell 1969, Gold and Widnell 1975, Dent et al 1980).  Large pituitaries, susceptible to Cysticercus in infection and rapid absorption of diethylstilboestrol leading to death  (Dunning et al 1947). Low LD{\dn4 50} of pentobarbital sodium (5/7=70mg/kg) (Shearer et al 1975). Have substantially higher levels of diurnal and stress related corticosterone levels with higher levels of corticosteroid-binding globulin in plasma, spleen and thymus than LEW or Sprague-Dawley rats (Dhabhar et al, 1993). Higher concentrations of cortical and hippocampal 5-HT1A receptors compared with LEW rats (Burnet et al, 1994). Hippocampal neurones are more vulnerable to ishemic insult than those of other strains (1/3) (Iwasaki et al, 1995).\par Infection\par Infection with {\i Hymenolepsis diminuata} cysticercoids results in no worm loss and no mastocytosis in contrast with DA where there was significant mastocytosis six weeks post infection and low persistance of worms (Ishih, 1992, 1994).\par F6R \par Inbr. F?+11. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. c. \par Origin: Mutation in an irradiated F344 strain obtained from the National Institute of Genetics, Misima, Japan. Carries chromosomal translocation (9:14) (Yosida et al 1985).\par FCH (Reserved symbol)\par Inbr. F15 (1989). \par Origin: "Fice Combined Hyperlipidemic strain". Strain developed from outbred stock by selection for high serum cholesterol. \par Characteristics\par Now has 212_58 mg/dl total serum cholesterol compared with 47_5 mg/dl in low cholesterol strain FNL. Develops chronic progressive nephrosis and hyperproteinuria from about 3 months of age (Patrono et al 1989).\par FH \par Inbr. F33. \par Colour: Fawn hooded. \par Genet:{\i  a, C, h, r.} \par Origin: Dodds, 1974 from an outbred stock developed by NRF Maier, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, from a cross between German brown rats and "white Lashley" rats (Tschopp and Zucker 1972). Note that other inbred strains have been developed from the same outbred stock (see FHH and FHL, below), which may have different characteristics.\par Characteristics\par Behaviour\par It has been suiggested that FH rats represent a genetic model of depression They have altered serotonergic function (Aulka et al, 1994a), they  exhibit differential responses to serotonic agonists and antagonists compared with other strains (Meehan and Schechter, 1994), and long-term treatment with imipramine, clomiprimine and clorgyline produced significant decreases in plasma corticosterone levels, supporting this suggestion (Aulaka et al, 1993). Clonidine increases growth hormone levels in Wistar, but not in FH rats. However, lithium treatment restores clonidine's effect (Aulakh et al 1994b). FH rats show deficits in freezing activity, and are insensitive to naltrexone induced enhancement of freezing activity. They also voluntarily drink large amounts of alcohol (Badishtov et al, 1995), though there is no evidence that alcohol preferring rats are drinking alcohol to reduce high anxiety states (Viglinskaya et al, 1995).\par Lifespan and spontaneous disease\par  Good reproductive performance (Greenhouse et al 1991).  Mild bleeding diathesis caused by autosomal dominant (? see below) gene, which is exacerbated by trauma and surgery and increases with age. Variable platelet aggregation defects and reduced platelet ATP, ATP/ADP ratio, and serotonin content and release (Raymond and Dodds 1975). Humoural immunity and compelment activity normal, but aged animals appear susceptible to infection. There is glomerular sclerosis early in life, with proteinurea as early as 10-12 weeks, which gradually progresses with age. At one year, FH rats have kidneys with lesions like those of 2-year old Sprague Dawley or Wistar rats (Kreisberg and Karnovsky 1978, Dodds 1988). Urizar et al (1984) suggest that the platlet defect and the nephropathy are unrelated, and the latter does not seem to be mediated by immune complexes. Moreover, the nephropathy progresses without imparement of renal function.  Prieur and Meyers (1984) have shown that the platelet storage pool defect is a pleiotropic effect of the red-eyed dilution gene r, and that both coat colour and the platelet defect are inherited as autosomal recessive (not dominant) characters. Platelets are less reactive to collagen than those of normal rats (Magro et al, 1992).\par Outbred Nmh:FAWN HOODED rats developed spontaneous hypertension (Rudofsky and Magro 1982). \par FHH and FHR (reserved symbol)\par Inbr. F16 (Brown et al, 1996). \par Colour: Fawn Hooded. \par Genet.  {\i a, h, r.} \par Origin: An outbred stock of fawn hooded rats introduced into Europe by Tschopp in the early 1970s. Maintained as an outbred stock until the mid-1980s, then brother x sister mating initiated by A.P. Provoost to produce two strains designated FHH (also known as FHR) and FHL, which differ in hypertension and proteinuria. The colony was transferred to Erasmus University.\par Characteristics\par Developes focal and segmental glomerular sclerosis, systemic hypertension and proteinuria at a young age, but these effects are more marked in FHH than FHL (Simons et al, 1993). The renal disease and hypertension are under independent genetic control, and both appear to be independent of the red-eyed dilution gene which causes platelet storage disease (Brown et al, 1966)\par FHL (reserved symbol)\par Inbr. F16 (Brown et al, 1996). \par Colour: Fawn hooded. \par Genet. a, h, r. \par Origin and characteristics: see FHH.\par FNL (reserved symbol)\par Inbr. ? \par Origin: "Fice Normolipidemic strain". Developed as a control strain for FCH (see FCH).\par G \par Inbr.F86+?. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i c}.\par Origin: Gorter, Holland to Hagedoorn, to CPB at F 35 (van Vliet 1977)\par GEPR/3 \par Inbr. F32 (Jbe 1989).  \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i c}\par Origin: Jobe, 1971 from outbred Sprague-Dawley stock. Selected for moderate susceptibility to audiogenic stimuli-induced seizures (Reigel et al 1986a). \par Characteristics\par Good reproductive performance. In response to a standard sound stimulus animals exhibit a single wild running phase followed by clonic convulsions. They often show postictal rage including vocalization, jumping, biting movements and intermittent catatonia (Reigel et al 1986a). Not susceptible to audogenic seizures at birth (Jobe et al 1980). Susceptibility begins at approx. 15 days of age (Reigel et al 1986b, 1989). May prove a useful model for assessing anti-convulsant drugs (Reigel et al 1986a, Dailey et al 1989).\par A different substrain, GEPR-9, is subject to seizures of greater severity. They become sensitive from about 21 days of age post-partum (Hjeresen et al 1987).\par GH \par Inbr.F31+?. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet: {\i c}. \par Origin: University of Otago Medical School from rats of Wistar origin  imported from England in 1930. Selection for high blood pressure started by Smirk in 1955. A number of sublines have been developed. Closely related to strain AS (Heslop and Phelan 1973). \par Characteristics\par Develops hypertension, cardiac hypertrophy and vascular disease (Phelan 1968, Simpson and Phelan 1984, Simpson et al, 1994). Heart rate about 20% greater, lower body fat and heart weight about 50% greater than in normotensive strains. Genetic hypertension in GH (but not SHR) may be associated with a defect in renal prostaglandin catabolism (Armstronag et al 1976). Strain characteristics in  relation to SHR reviewed by Simpson et al (1973) and also in  de Jong (1984). Systolic blood pressure is significantly lowered by Cilazapril (Ledingham et al, 1993).  A study of the structure of the mesenteric resistance arteries shows that the media volume is increased early in life, possibly due to hypertrophy of the smooth muscle cells or an increase in the amount of extracellular matrix, or both. However, since hypertension is present at an early age, these effects may not be the primary cause of hypertension (Ledingham and Miller, 1993). The renal alpha-2-adenoceptor densitiy is increased compared with the normotensive control at 12, but not at 4 weeks of age. However, this is due to a decrease in the control rather than an increase in GH rats (Smyth et al, 1992). A sub-population of sympathetic ganglionic neurones die during the perinatal period, but these die much later in life in Wistar rats (Hendry and Bell, 1993). Levels of substance P in superior cervical ganglion, spinal cord, iris and trachea are about two-fold that or normal rats, and substance P containing sensory neurone numbers are also elevated (Bakhle and Bell, 1994).\par GHA \par Inbr.F20+?. \par Colour: Ginger hooded. \par Genet. {\i ?, h}. \par Origin: The Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Woodville, S. Australia from mixed Wistar, LEW and coloured stock (Festing and Staats 1973).\par GK\par Inbr. F40 (Galli et al, 1996). \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i c}. \par Origin: Developed  from outbred Wistar rats with selection for high glucose levels in and oral glucose tolerance test (Goto et al 1975).\par Characteristics\par Shows several non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM)-related phenotypes including fasting hyperglycemia, impared secretion of insulin in response to glucose both in vivo and in isolated pancreata, hepatic and peripheral insulin resistance, with late complications which include nephropathy and neuropathy (Suzuki et al, 1992, Hughes et al, 1994, Villar-Palasi and Farese, 1994). Three independent loci affecting NIDDM, and a major locus affecting body weight but not glucose tolerance have been identified in a cross with non-diabetic F344 rats (Galli et al, 1996).\par HCS \par Origin: Harvard to Liverpool, UK in 1960.\par HMT \par Inbr. F30 (1979). \par Colour: Albino,\par Genet. {\i  c}. \par Origin: Outbred Alderley Park (strain 1) inbred since 1964 as "{\i H}arwell {\i M}outh {\i T}umour". \par Characteristics\par About 50% incidence of squamous-cell carcinoma of the mouth late in life. Mean life-span 27-30 months with or without mouth tumours (Hulse 1979, Buckley et al 1980).\par HS \par Inbr. F43 (Osu 1988)  \par Colour: Black hooded. \par Genet. {\i a, h}. \par Origin: Probably from same Wistar x wild rat cross as BS (Zeiss 1966). Docile, fair reproduction. Approximately 12% hydrocephalus.\par HXB-1-43. \par Inbr.F17-21 (Ipcv 1988). \par Origin: Set of 17 recombinant inbred strains developed by Pravenec, Klir and Kren from a cross between SHR/OlaIpcv and BN.ix/CubIpcv, and described by Pravenec et al (1988). Strains have now been typed at 500 loci and scanned for quantitative trait loci associated with blood pressure and heart weight (Pravenec et al, 1995).\par IIM \par Inbr. F20+ (equivalent).\par Origin: Set of nine parallel inbred strains designated IIMa to IIMi from a single outbred colony of albino rats in Buenos Aires, Argentina in 1947. The ancestors came from Europe in 1917. All strains were selected for large body weight and high fertility with each colony consisting of one male and 4-6 females, with inbreeding due to full and half-sib mating. One strain designated IIM\'a7 becomes obese with mild glucose intolerance and glycosurea in older obese rats (Calderari et al 1987).\par INR \par Inbr.F54+?. \par Colour: Black hooded. \par Genet. {\i a, B, C, h}. \par Origin: Harrington 1962 from a stock selected by CS Hall for low open field defaecation. \par Characteristics\par Good reproductive performance, large litters, docile (Harrington 1981). Short emergence latency from cage in both familiar and novel environment (1/12) (Harrington 1971a), Low open field defaecation in females and high open field ambulation in both sexes (1/12). Low wheel activity and poor complex maze learning (Harrington 1972).\par IR \par Inbr.F20+?. \par Colour: Pale cinnamon beige hooded. \par Genet: {\i a, h, c}{\i\up4 d}{\i , ?}. \par Origin: Harrington 1962 from a cross  of a Michigan and a Berlin stock (Harrington 1981). \par Characteristics\par Vigorous and healthy, but high incidence of physical anormalities. Skulls of  young fragile through weaning. High death rate from hemorrhage due to blood platelet disease (Harrington 1981). Long latency to emerge into familiar environment (12/12 males, 10/12 females) (Harrington 1971a). High open field exploration in females (3/12) (Harrington 1972). Low wheel activity (11/12 males 10/12 females) (Harrington 1971b).\par IS \par Inbr.F23+.\par Colour: Abouti . \par Genet: +. \par Origin: from a cross between a wild male and a Wistar female, with sib mating since 1968. \par Characteristics\par Malformations of the thoracicolumbar vertebrae leading to kyphoscoliosis with restricted spinal canals and compressed spinal cords. The malformations occur from the 12th. thoracic to the 6th. lumbar vertebrae. Up to 7 vertebrae are affected, and some degree of  abnormality occurs in 90% of individuals (Ishibashi 1976). Yamada et al (1982) suggest that the condition is controlled by one or a few genetic factors, and they were able to develop a partially congenic strain which still showed the abnormalities at N3F3 when backcrossed to BN with selection for skeletal abnormalities.\par JC \par Inbr. F83?. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i  c}. \par Origin: LEW/Ss to Hall Institute, to CSIRO in Brisbane, Australia. Presumed genetic comtamination some time prior to 1980, and re-named JC. To Dr. T Fukumoto, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine in 1983. Genetic markers described by Adams et al (1984).\par K \par Inbr.F40+. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet: {\i c}. \par Origin: Dr. E. Matthies, Halle-Wittenberg 1958 from outbred Wistar stock.. Low spontaneous tumour incidence (less that 0.5%). Good breeding performance. Weight at 100 days 290g in males and 200g in females. Developed for resistance to a range of transplantable tumours (Matthies and Ponsold 1973).\par KGH \par Inbr.F42 (Pit). \par Colour: Albino\par Genet.  {\i c}. \par Origin: Kunz and Gill from outbred NEDH rats supplied by the Animal Research Center, Harvard University (Kunz and Gill 1974, Kunz et al 1974).\par KIRBY-B \par Inbr. F60. \par Colour: Black with white strip on belly and white on feet. \par Genet. ?. \par Origin: From a cross between black hooded and CFY outbred rats with selection for resistance to chronic respiratory disease. Litter size 8-12 (60% male), but only 4-5 weaned. Agile, but tame (Bertok 1980).\par KX  (formerly called NEDH). \par Inbr. F45. \par Colour: Albino,\par Genet. {\i c}. \par Origin: developed from Slonaker colony, University of  Chicago about 1928. Sublines which carry gene {\i ic} (infantile ichthyosis) and colour genes C and H have also been developed (Knox 1977)\par KYN \par Inbr.F59.(Hok) \par Colour: Black with the hooded "notched" allele. \par Genet. {\i  a, B, C, h}{\i\up4 n}{\up4} .\par Origin: Makino, Hokkaido University 1960 from stock the carrying the 'notched' character isolated by Nakata from wild rats in Kyoto, and  from a cross involving WKAH. Formerly designated KYO "Kyoto-notched" (Shoji 1977, MC Yoshida, personal communication). \par Characteristics\par Abnormalities of urogenital organs 11% (Shoji and Harata 1977). \par LA and LA/N-cp \par Inbr. F89 (NIH 1989).\par Colour: Black: \par Genet{\i . a,H}. \par Origin: from a cross between ALB/N and a hooded stock of unknown origin (Hansen et al 1982). \par Characteristics\par Good reproductive performance. LA is  mainly used as control for congenic strain LA/N-{\i cp} (ie carrying the 'corpulent' gene, an allele of 'fatty') in studies of obesity (see Tulp 1990 for a review). High 10-week body weight in males (21/23) (Tanase et al 1982). Low relative heart weight in 10-week old males (1/23) (Tanase et al 1982). Diabetes in LA/N-cp occurs in 80% of male obese and 17% of female obese rats from six months of age (Tulp and Weng, 1992). Glucose turnover in lean and obese LA rats has been described by Berdanier et al, (1993). Obese rats have twice the capacity to synthesise body fat and cholesterol, but have a reduced capacity to degrade cholesterol, leading to an accumulation of cholesterol and fat (Ghosh et al, 1995).\par LE \par Inbr. F34+? \par Colour: Black hooded. \par Genet. {\i a, h.} \par Origin:Dr. M. Sabourdy about 1960 from Long-Evans outbred stock. To Muhlbock, Amsterdam, and to Han in 1973. Note that other inbred strains independently derived  from Long Evans stock may differ because of the outbred origin (Festing and Bender, 1984).\par LEA\par Inbr.F49 (Hok). \par Colour: Agouti. \par Genet.  +. \par Origin: Hok from outbred Long Evans stock, selected for agouti coat colour (though Long Evans stock is usually fixed for non-agouti, hooded genes) (MC Yoshida, personal communication). Liver gangliosides are of the a-type (cf ACI,LEW & BUF) (Kasai et al 1993)\par LEC \par Inbr. F50 (Hok). \par Colour: Cinamon-like. \par Genet. ?\par Origin: Misima, Japan 1956 from a cross between a wild rat and "Castle's black rat". To Hok in 1975 at F32 (Sasaki, personal communication). \par Characteristics\par Carries a mutation causing fulminant hepatitis and jaundice at about four months of age. Clinical symptoms include severe jaundice, bleeding, oliguria, loss of body weight and elevation of serum levels of bilirubin and hepatic enzymes. About half the animals die within a week of onset, and in survivors hepatocellular carcinoma spontaneously appears after 1-1.5 years (Kasai et al 1990, Sasaki 1985, Wirth et al 1990). The characteristics of the strain have been reviewed by Mori et al, (1994).\par Liver cytochrome P450 levels were substantially reduced both at 4 weeks and at 3 month of age, but epoxide hydrolase, gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase and UDP-glucuronyl-transferase activities were significantly elevated at four weeks (Sugiyama et al 1988). Liver gangliosides are abnormal (Kasi et al 1993). There is a gross accumulation of copper in the liver which is associated with the hepatitis. Copper levels can be reduced by treatment with D-penicillamine (Togashi et al, 1992). Highly sensitive to whole body irridation when compared with WKAH (Hayashi et al, 1992, 1993). It appears to be an animal model of Wilson's disease in humans (Yamada et al, 1993). There are abnormalities in ethanol and acetaldehyde metabolizing enzymes (Nakajima et al, 1993).\par Other papers describing the LEC strain include Miyoshi et al, (1993a, b), Kato et al (1993), Yamamoto et al, (1993), Suzuki et al, (1993, 1994, 1995), Ito et al, (1994), Sakurai et al, (1994), Kanno et al, (1994a,b), Sakai et al, (1994), Ikeda et al, (1994), Okui et al, (1994), Suzuki and Kuroda (1994), Muramatsu et al, (1995), Yamada et al, (195), Ohhira et al, (1995)\par LEJ \par Inbr. F68. \par Colour: Black hooded. \par Genet. {\i a, h}. \par Origin: Hok 1956 from Pacific Farms, USA as an outbred stock (Sasaki, personal communication). \par Characteristics\par Susceptible to the induction of  EAU by interphotoreceptor retinol-binding protein  (cf WKAH, W/M, LEW and BUF, but in contrast with TO) (Sasamoto et al, 1994). Moderately sensitive to the development of experimental glomerulonephritis following injection of nephritogenic antigen from bovine renal basement membrane (3/10) (Naito et al, 1991)\par LEM \par Inbr. F33 (Yag). \par Colour: Albino/black hooded. \par Genet. a, C/c (forced heterozygosity), h. \par Origin: Subline of LET, which was a cross between LEW and a Long-Evans stock developed by TH Yoshida. Carries an inversion of chromosome 1 (Yosida, 1980).\par LEO \par Inbr. F37. \par Colour: Black booded \par Genet.{\i a, C, h}. \par Origin: from National Institute of Genetics Misima, Japan. Control strain for LEM and LET, without chromosomal inversions (Yosida, 1980).\par LEP \par Inbr. F66. \par Colour: Agouti ,\par Genet. +. \par Origin: Charles University from cross of outbred animals, including a Long Evans stock (Brdicka, personal communication). Has an unusual esterase haplotype (Festing and Bender 1984)\par LER \par Inbr. F30 (NIH 1989). \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i c}.\par Origin: Originally designated Le-R and thought to be a mutation within LEW conferring resistance of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) (Waxman et al, 1981, Driscoll et al 1985, Gasser et al, 1983). However, it now appears to have been an accidental genetic contamination by BUF/N rats (Goldmuntz et al, 1993),. See LEW, Immunology. \par Characteristics\par Resistant to the induction of  EAE, though susceptible to adoptively transferred EAE when they are injected with encephalitogenic T cells from EAE-susceptible LEW rats (Blankenhorn et al, 1995).\par LET \par Inbr. F34 \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i c.}  \par Origin: from National Institute of Genetics, Misima, Japan. From a cross betrween LEW and LEJ. Homozygous for a 1:12 chromosomal translocation. See LEM and LEO (Yosida, 1980).\par LETL \par Inbr. F20 (1989). \par Colour: Black hooded. \par Genet.{\i  a, h}. \par Origin: A rat with spontaneous polyurea, polyphagia and polydipsia was found in a colony of outbred Long Evans rats purchased from Charles River in 1982. Selective breeding for diabetes with brother x sister mating was subsequently started at the Tokushima Research Institute, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Japan \par Characteristics\par About 30% of rats develop insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. Onset is abrupt at 8 to 20 weeks, of equal severity in both sexes, and the animals are not obese. Clinical symptoms include hyperglycemia, glycosurea, ketonia, polyurea polydipsia and polyphagia. There is destruction of the pancreatic \'a7 cells and lymphocytic infiltration of the submaxillary and lacrimal glands. There is no significant T lymphopenia, but there is lymphocytic infliltration into the salivary and lacrimal glands. Genetic analysis suggests that the condition involves at least two genes, one of which is linked to RT1{\up4 u}. A non-diabetic control strain LETO, has been developed from the same base population. The strain has been characterised at 21 marker loci (Kawano et al 1989, Kawano et al, 1991)\par LETO \par Inbr. F20. \par Colour: Black hooded. \par Genet.  {\i a, h}. \par Origin and characteristics; see LETL.\par LEW \par Inbr. F?+96. \par Colour: Albino \par Genet: a, h, c. \par Origin: Dr. Margaret Lewis from Wistar stock, to Aptekman and Bogden 1954 at F20, to Silvers in 1958 at F31. Subsequently distributed by Silvers. Used as the inbred partner for a number of congenic strains at the major histocompatibility complex (Stark and Kren 1969). A substrain with congenital hydrocephalus due to primary aqueductal stenosis has been described by Yamada et al, (1992)\par Characteristics\par Anatomy\par Low relative heart weight in 10-week old males (4/23) (Tanase et al 1982).\par Behaviour\par Docile. High response to operant morphine-reinforced behaviour (1/4) (Ambrosio et al 1995).  Has a weak 24-hr. rhythm in wheel running activity when compared with ACI (Siebert and Wollnik 1991). Can be triggered into paradoxical sleep by dark pulse stimulation (ie. turning off the lights), in contrast with BN (Leung et al, 1992). Develops larger acoustic and tactile startle response than strain F344, which may be associated with strain differences in hypothalmic-pituitary-adrenal activation (Glowa et al,1992).\par Lifespan and spontaneous disease\par Survival 26% at 2 years (Lindsey et al 1968). In a study involving 305 female and 324 male rats of the LEW/Han substrain, mean lifespan in females was 27.7_5.1 months, in males 32.5_6.6 months. In both sexes the lifespan was mainly determined by the occurrence of neoplasms. Of the large spectrum of 52 histologically different types of tumours, the highest incidence was observed for adenomas of the pituitary and adenomas/adenocarcinomas of the adrenal cortex in both sexes, mammary gland tumours and endometrial carcinomas (45%) in females, and C-cell adenomas/adenocarcinomas of the thyroid gland and tumours of the haemopoietic system (28%) in males (Baum et al, 1995).\par Immunology\par Sensitive to the development of a number of experimental autoimmune conditions including experimental allergic encephalomyelitis after challenge with guinea pig myelin basic protein (McFarlin et al 1975a, b, Hughes and Stedronska 1973, Perlik and Zidek 1974, Gasser et al 1975, Willenborg 1979), induced autoimmune myocarditis (Friedman et al 1970), autologous immune complex glomerulonephritis (linked to the MHC) (Stenglein et al 1975, Watson and Dixon 1966, Kelchner et al 1976), adjuvent-induced arthritis (Perlik and Zidek 1974, Koga et al 1973), {\i streptococcal} and {\i Lactobacillus casei} cell wall induced arthritis (Cromartie et al 1977, Clark et al 1979, Wilder et al 1982, 1983, 1987, Lehman et al 1983), reactive arthritis induced by {\i Yersinia enterocolitica} (Hill and Yu 1987), allergic orchitis (Levine and Sowinski 1970), autoallergic sialadenitis (a model of Sjogren's disease) (Cutler et al 1987), and experimental autoimmune myesthenia gravis (Lennon et al 1975, Biesecker and Koffler 1988 (7/9)). Response may be modified by microflora (Kallen and Logdberg 1982).  Epitope specificities of collagen-induced arthritis studied by Cremer et al (1992). DA is sensitive whereas LEW are relatively resistant to oil-induced arthritis using Freund's incomplete adjuvent (Holmdahl et al, 1992, 1994). Following lethal irradiation and re-constitution with syngeneic bone marrow and given cyclosporin A for several weeks these rats will develop cyclosporin-induced autoimmunity after withdrawal of the cyclosporin. The condition resembles graft-versus host disease in terms of acute dermatitis and chronic scleroderma. BN rats do not develop this disease (Wodzig et al, 1993). Highly susceptible to the induction of experimental autoimmune uveoretinitis (EAU) and endotoxin-induced uveitis which appears to be associated with the production of tumour necrosis factor (TNF) by retinal Muller glia and retinal pigmented epithelium. Strain BN is resistant (Dekozak et al, 1994).  Susceptible to the induction of  EAU by interphotoreceptor retinol-binding protein  (cf WKAH, W/M, LEJ and BUF, but in contrast with TO) (Sasamoto et al, 1994).\par Moderately sensitive to the development of experimental glomerulonephritis following injection of nephritogenic antigen from bovine renal basement membrane (2/10) (Naito et al, 1991)\par Susceptible to the induction of proteinuria following treatment with the monoclonal antibody 5-6-1, like BN and outbred Wistar, but unlike resistant outbred Sprague-Dawley rats which were also resistant to glomerular damage (Gollner et al, 1995).\par A substrain (initially designated Le-R, but now re-named  strain LER), resistant to the development of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis but which is still histocompatible with LEW has been described by Waxman et al (1981) and Driscoll et al (1985).  Gasser et al (1983) suggested  that the resistance is probably due to a non-MHC-linked mutation. However, it now seems that resistance is due to genetic contamination by BUF strain rats (Goldmuntz et al, 1993, see strain LER).\par About  half of females sensitised against H-Y antigen accept skin grafts from neonatal sygeneic males, and about  half of these will subsequently accept skin from adult males (Silvers and Collins 1979). High antibody response to concanavalin A and phytohaemagglutinin (Williams et al 1973). Interferon production in response to polyriboinosinic-polyribocytodilic acid 20-40 fold higher than that observed in six other inbred strains. The effect is due to more than one gene, and is not associated with the MHC (Davis et al 1984).  Resident macrophages (ramified microglea) of the central nervous system are not constitutively major histocompatibility complex class-II positive, in contrast with BN (Sedgwick et al, 1993). Mercury (HgCl{\dn4 2}) stimulates peritoneal polymorphonuclear leukocytes and macrophages to produce hydrogen peroxide, in contrast with strain BN (Contrino et al, 1992). Resistant to the development of autoimmunity from skin-injected HgCl{\dn4 2 }, in contrast to BN (Warfvinge and Larsson, 1994). Poor (5/5) antibody response to a synthetic 20 amino acid peptide derived from the alpha helical region of the RT1-D-u beta chain (Murphy et al, 1994). Although DA and LEW are both highly susceptible to the development of EAE, there are marked differences in the array of myelin epitopes capable of inducing the disease as well as MHC restriction of these epitopes between the two strains (Stepaniak et al, 1995).\par Highly susceptible to inflammatory disease due to deficient glucocorticoid counter-regulation of the immune response resulting from deficient corticotropin-releasing hormone responsiveness. Have significantly more benzodiazepine binding sites than F344, though there was no difference in affinities (Smith et al, 1992 see also Oitzl et al, 1995).  No differences between LEW and F344 in the sensitivity of target tissues to exogenous glucocorticoids which could be associated with differences in susceptibility to inflammatory disease (Karalis et al, 1995).\par Biochemistry and Physiology\par High fertility. High serum thyroxine, insulin and growth hormone levels (1/5 in each case) (Esber et al 1974). Becomes obese on a high fat diet (rank 2/7)(Schemmel et al 1970). High hepatic metabolism of ethylmorphine in females (3/10) (Page and Vesell 1969). Short gestation period (3/8) (Peters 1986). Low blood pressure (22/23), reaching 119_2.0 (SEM) mmHg at 10 weeks of age (Tanase et al 1982). Liver gangliosides are of the a-type (cf ACI, LEA, & BUF) (Kasai et al 1993). Rapid metaboliser of MPPB (F344 is slow) (Takahara et al 1993). Have substantially lower levels of diurnal and stress related corticosterone levels with higher levels of corticosteroid-binding globulin in plasma, spleen and thymus than F344 rats (Dhabhar et al, 1993). Lower concentrations of cortical and hippocampal 5-HT1A receptors compared with F344 and outbred Spargue-Dalwey rats (Burnet et al, 1994).\par Hackbarth et al (1981) report on kidney function in this and other strains. Hackbarth et al (1983) report on haematological parameters in relation to several other strains. \par Drugs and chemicals\par Long pentobarbitone sleeping time in males (3/10) but short time in females (10/10) (Vieregge et al 1987). High serum ceruloplasmin levels (Stolc 1984).   Compared with F344, LEW rats show a much higher preference for several classes of drugs of abuse. This may be associated with lower levels of neurofilament proteins in the ventral tegmental area of the brain (Guitart et al, 1992). Duration of morphine-induced EEG slow-wave bursts and associated behavioural stupor was greater in LEW than F344 rats (Myomichelson and Young, 1993).  LEW rats self-administer more morphine and drugs of abuse than F344 rats (Gosnell and Krahn, 1993, Glowa et al, 1994, Ambrosio et al, 1995). Duration of EEG slow-wave bursts and behavioural stupor also longer in LEW than F344 following administration of ethylketocyclazocine, suggesting differences in opioid-related receptor populations between these strains (Mayomichelson and Young, 1993). Cocaine conditioned place preference was greater in LEW than F344 rats (Kosten et al, 1994). Susceptible to the induction of glandular stomach adenocarcinomas following treatment with catechol (contrast WKY) (Tanaka et al, 1995)\par Infection\par Young animals susceptible to  {\i Borrelia burgdorferi}-induced arthritic lesions resembling those found in human Lyme disease (Barthold et al 1988).  Susceptible to the induction of encephalitis by coronavirus, with a much longer delay in lymphocyte proliferation following infection than in the resistant BN strain (Imrich et al, 1994). Susceptible (1/4) to ocular infection with herpes simplex virus with death following 4 x 10{\up4 4} plaque forming units (pfu). PVG was relatively resistant (Nicholls et al, 1994). \par LH \par Inbr. F27 (Lyon). \par Colour: Albino, \par Genetc. {\i c}. \par Origin: "{\i L}yon {\i H}ypertensive". In 1969 outbred Sprague-Dawley rats were selected for high systolic blood pressure using an indirect plethysmographic technique in pre-warmed unrestrained conscious rats. Three pairs were originally selected, and selection was continued with brother x sister mating. Strain LN was maintained as a normotensive control, and LL as a hypotensive strain. (see Vincent et al 1984, and Vincent and Sassard, 1994 for reviews). \par Characteristics\par The strain exhibits mild hypertension (approx 165mmHg in males and 140mmHg in females at 14 weeks of age in 1984) with increased body weight and plasma lipids. There is reduced life-span (compared with LN and LL) with histopathological lesions characterisitc of hypertensive disease in rats. The renin-angiotensin system, renal synthesis of prostaglandins and the secretion of vasopressin do not seem to be involved, but there is increased efficiency of the sympathetic nervous system (Vincent et al 1984). Develop marked cardiovascular habituation to repeated stress, with a low level of emotional responsiveness (Julien et al, 1992). Renin release of isolated kidneys is independent of perfusion pressure and  renal thromboxane A2/prostaglandin H-2 receptor activation participates in renin release and in the altered kidney function of these rats (Medeiros et al, 1992). A significant association has been observed between blood pressure and a microsatellite marker near the renin gene on chromosome 13 and between pulse pressure and the carboxypeptidase B gene on chromosome 2. (Dubay et al, 1993). Blood pressure also co-segregated with plasma cholesterol levels, and to a lesser degree insulin levels in crosses involving LH and LN (Vincent et al, 1993). Neonatal thymectomy prevents the development of hypertension. This is not secondary to a decreased secretion of catecholamines, renin, mineralcorticoids and testosterone, suggesting that the role of the thymus is probably mediated by cellular immune mechanisms (Bataillard et al, 1993).\par Other papers using this strain include Lortet et al, (1993), Medeiros et al, (1994)\par LH/Lac. \par Inbr. F20+\par Origin: "Liverpool Hooded". Strain now probably extinct, but haematology described by Lovell et al (1981).\par LL\par  Inbr. F27. \par Origin: "Lyon Low-Tensive". See LH\par LN \par Inbr. F27. \par Origin: "Lyon Normotensive". See LH\par LOU/C \par Inbr. F35. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i  c}.  \par Origin: Bazin and Beckers from rats of presumed Wistar origin kept at the Universite Catholique de Louvain. LOU/C was selected among 28 parallel sublines for its high incidence of plasmacytomas, and LOU/M for its low incidence. The two are histocomaptible (Bazin 1977, Bazin and Beckers 1978). \par Characteristics\par  Develop spontaneous plasmacytomas after about 8 months of age, with an incidence of about 30% in males and 16% in females. These develop rapidly, and may be detected by palpation. They usually develop in the ileocoecal lymph nodes, and about 60% of them synthesise monoclonal immunoglobulins (Bence-Jones proteins) of IgG1 (35%), IgE (36%) or IgA classes. Surgical removal of ileocaecal lymph nodes decreases plasmacytoma incidence to less than 2% (Moriame et al 1977). Ultrastructure of the tumours described by Burtonboy et al (1978).  Tumours are transplantable  in solid or ascites form, and retain their secretory properties through successive passages (Bazin et al 1972, Bazin et al 1973, Bazin 1974, Bazin et al 1974a,b, Beckers and Bazin 1978). More than 800 transplantable immunocytomas are now available.\par LOU/M\par Inbr. F?+36. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i  c}. \par Origin: see LOU/C. Histocompatible with LOU/C and maintained by selection of LOU/M males on the basis of acceptance of skin grafts  from LOU/C rats (Bazin 1977, Beckers and Bazin 1978). \par Characteristics\par Good antibody response to ovalbumin with {\i Bordetella pertussis} organsisms as adjuvent (Bazin and Platteau 1976). Susceptible to the development of cerebral malaria when inoculated with {\i Plasmodium berghei} ANKA (Neill 1991).\par LUDW \par Inbr. F??. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i a, c, h.} \par Origin: "Ludwig Wistar"; Wistar stock to Ludwig Institute to Olac in 1979. Susceptible to tumour induction by MNU.\par LXB\par Inbr. ?. \par Origin: Set of 13 recombinant inbred strains from a cross between LEW and BN (Central Institute, Hannover)\par M14 \par Inbr. F40+ \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet.{\i  c}. \par Origin: AB Chapman 1940 from Sprague-Dawley stock, with selection for low ovarian response to pregnant mare's serum.\par M17 \par Inbr. F40+ \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i c.}\par Origin: AB Chapman 1940 from Sprague-Dawley stock with selection for high ovarian response to pregnant mare's serum.\par M520  \par Inbr. F148. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet.  {\i a, c, h}. \par Origin: Curtiss 1920, Columbia University Institute for Cancer Research, to Heston in 1949 at F49. To NIH in 1951 at F51 (Hansen et al 1982). A congenic strain lacking vasopressin due to the presence of the diabetes insipidus gene, di (from the Brattleboro rat) has been described (Colombo et al, 1992).\par Characteristics\par Low systolic blood pressure (16/17) (Hansen et al 1973). Low hepatic metabolism of anilene (9/10 in males, 7/10 in females), but high metabolism of ethylmorphine (1/10) (Page and Vesell 1969). Good breeding performance (2/12) and intermediate litter size (6/12) (Hansen et al 1973). Susceptible to {\i Cysticercus}. NIH subline has a 21-25% incidence of adrenal medulla tumours. Susceptible to induction of tumours by 2-acetylaminofluorine (Symeonidis 1954). Low frequency of pancreatic exocrine tumours. By 12-15 months of age develop small local areas of nephritis that progress by 22-24 months to moderate to severe nephritis in 75% of animals (Snell 1967). About 33% of females over 18 months develop tumours of the uterus of endometrial origin. Adrenocortical adenomas (about 20% in males and 40% in females over 18 months of age), and phaeochromocytomas or preneoplastic nodules in adrenal medulla (about 67% of males over 21 months of age) (Snell 1965). Intermediate survival to 2 years of age at 59% in males and 62% in females. There was a relatively high incidence of mild chronic renal disease and a high incidence of hydronephrosis which may make the strain unsuitable for long-term toxicity studies (though diet may have an important influence) (Solleveld and Boorman 1986). Low blood pressure (21/23), reaching 121_1.2 (SEM) mmHg at 10 weeks of age (Tanase et al 1982). Resistant to development of methlycholanthrene -induced thyroiditis (Glover et al 1969). Low antibody response to streptococcal group A carbohydrate, which is not MHC linked (Stankus and Leslie 1976). Low 10-week body weight in males (5/23) (Tanase et al 1982). High relative heart weight in 10-week old males (21/23) (Tanase et al 1982).\par Lacks the phenobarbital-inducible cytochrome P450 2B2 (Cyp2B2) in hepatic microsomes due to a mutation in a single autosomal gene, with codominant inheritance with respect to protein and mRNA phenotypes (see also MW) (Omiecinski et al, 1992).\par MAXX\par Inbr. F20+?. \par Colour: Black hooded. \par Genet. {\i a, h}. \par Origin: from a cross of BNxLEW with subsequent inbreeding. \par Characteristics\par Like strain BN, but in contrast to 17 other strains MAXX is susceptible to the development of mercury-induced autoimmunity to renal basement membranes with the development of membraneous glomerulonephritis (Henry et al 1988). Used to study alloantigen Eag-1 (Blankert et al 1987).\par MF\par See APR\par MHS \par Inbr. F36. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i  c}. \par Origin: "{\i M}ilan {\i H}ypertensive {\i S}train": Outbred Wistar rats with brother x sister mating and selection for high systolic blood pressure (Bianchi et al 1974, Barber et al, 1994). \par Characteristics \par Reviewed by Bianchi et al (1984). At weaning, mean systolic blood pressure not different from that of MNS at about 119 mmHg, but by about 50 days the mean systolic blood pressure has risen to about 170 mmHg and heart rate is about 350-360 beats per minute. Kidney weight is reduced at all ages, and left ventricular weight increased from 100 days of age compared with MNS. Erythrocytes are smaller than in MNS. Hypertension can be 'transplanted' from MHS to MNS by kidney transplantation, and this can be done in the very early and mid-hypertensive phase. There are signs of volume expansion and increased water intake. The MHS strain may be a useful animal model of renal hypertension mechanisms responsible for 'essential' hypertension in subgroups of human patients. A factor capable of interacting with the ouabain receptor on the sodium-potassium ATPase of tubular cells is present in the kidneys, it can be removed by prolonged washout (Foulkes et al, 1992), and is present at higher levels in MRS than from the normotensive controls (Ferrandi et al, 1992, 1993). Faster sodium transport may be a primary abnormality responsible for the hypertension (Salardi et al, 1993). There are also defects in the regulation of adenylyl cyclase in vascular smooth muscle cell membranes (Clark et al, 1993). A point mutation in each of two genes coding for the membrane skeletal protein adducin is associated with blood pressure (Bianchi et al, 1994).\par Other papers describing this strain include  Clark et al, (1994), Muller et al, (1995)\par MLCS\par Inbr. F?+N8. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i c}. \par Origin: From a cross between MHS and MNS followed by backcrossing to MNS with selection for low calpastatin activity. \par Characteristics\par Has normal blood pressure and low calpastatin activity, and is proposed as a model for the study of the calpain-calpastatin system (Soldati et al, 1995)\par MNR \par Inbr. F79+?. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet.  {\i A, B, c, h}. \par Origin: PL Broadhurst, 1954, from a commercial Wistar stock with selection for low defecation response in an open field. To Harrington 1965 at F25 and to National Institutes of Health 1964 at F18+. The strain was apparently inbred as a number of parallel sublines which differ at the agouti locus and major histocompatibility complex (Hansen et al 1982). \par Characteristics\par The strain is widely used in behaviour research, and characteristics have been described by Harrington (1971a,b, 1972, 1979a-i). Long latency to emerge into a familiar (11/12) and novel (12/12) environment in females (Harrington 1971a). Low open field defecation (12/12 males, 11/12 to 9/12 depending on subline in females) (Harrington 1972). High wheel activity (1/12) (Harrington 1971b). Low open-field defecation (8/8) in hybrid offspring (Rick and Fulker 1972). Low blood pressure (23/23), reaching 118_1.1 (SEM) mmHg at 10 weeks of age (Tanase et al 1982). Low 10-week body weight in males (1/23) (Tanase et al 1982). Good breeding performance (3/12) and large litter size (3/12) (Hansen et al 1973). See also MR. An extensive review of the differences between MR and MNR is given by Broadhurst (1975).\par Other papers comparing MR and MNR or MR and MNRA include Commissaris et al (1992), Abel et al, (1992), Sara et al, (1993), Buda et al, (1994), Sara et al, (1994), Verbanac et al, (1993)\par MNRA \par Inbr. F82+?. \par Colour: Albino \par Genet. {\i a, c, h}. \par Origin: Substrain of MNR (see above). To Harrington in 1965 at F25 (Harrington 1981). \par Characteristics\par Differs from MNR in a number of characteristics (Harrington 1971a,b, 1972, 1979a-1) and carries the {\i a} allele at the agouti locus. Fails to habituate to acoustic startle stimulus (Commissaris et al 1988).\par MNS \par Inbr. F44. \par Colour: Albino, \par Genet. {\i c}. \par Origin: "{\i M}ilan {\i N}ormotensive {\i S}train": Outbred Wistar rats with brother x sister mating and selection for low systolic blood pressure as a normotensive control for MHS. (Bianchi et al 1974). \par Characteristics\par  reviewed in relation to MHS by Bianchi et al (1984). At weaning, mean systolic blood pressure not different from that of MHS at about 119 mmHg, but by about 50 days the mean systolic blood pressure has only risen to 131 mmHg compared with about 170 mmHg in MHS. See MHS for more details. An age-related glomerulosclerosis occurs in this strain, but not in MHS (Pugliese et al, 1995). This can be ameliorated but not prevented by a diet enriched in fish oil (Goldstein et al, 1995).\par MR  \par Inbr.F86 (Pit). \par Colour: Albino \par Genet. {\i a, c, h. }\par Origin: as for MNR except selection was for high defecation response in the open field. To Harrington in 1965 at F25 and to NIH in 1964 at F18+ (Hansen et al 1982). \par Characteristics\par Compared with MNR, the strain has a high open-field defecation, low ambulation, low rearing, low shock avoidance conditionability and tends to be more "emotional" in a wide range of behaviour (Broadhurst 1975), and have a higher preference for ethanol (Brewster 1968). Also differs from MNR in norepinephrine concentration in hypothalamus, heart, spleen and adrenal glands, suggesting that the sympathetic system might be functionally related to behavioural differences   between the strains (Liang and Blizzard 1978). Lower specific benzodiazepine binding than MNR in hippocampus, hypothalamus, midbrain, medulla/pons and spinal cord, which might be a biological basis for differences in emotional behaviour (Robertson et  al 1978). Long emergence latency in a novel environment in females (12/12) and also into a familiar environment in males (11/12) (Harrington 1971a). High open field defecation (1/12 males 2/12 females) (Harrington 1972). Shows substantial habituation to acoustic startle stimulous (Commissaris et al 1988). mRNA and protein populations in the brains of MR and MNR have been studied by Whatley et al (1992).\par Good breeding performance (4/12) and large litter size (2/12) (Hansen et al 1973). \par See also MNR.\par MSUBL \par Inbr. F23+. \par Colour: Black. \par Genet. {\i  a}. \par Origin: Dr. Stroyeva, Institute of Developmental Biology, Moscow from a cross of wild rats x MSU microphthalmic rats obtained from Dr Brouman, Montana State University. Selected for high incidence of microphthalmia (Borodin 1977). \par Characteristics\par  High incidence of microphthalmia and anophthalmia. High reactivity of adrenals to ACTH (1/4). Rokhlin et al (1971) reported on immunoglobulin allotypes.\par MW  (Reserved symbol)\par Inbr. ? \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. c. \par Origin: Munich Wistar stock selected for superficial glomeruli and inbred by Harlan-Sprague-Dawley, now at F17 (1990). See also MWF and WMS. \par Charcateristics\par Susceptible to the development of experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (9/9) (Biesecker and Koffler 1988). Lacks the phenobarbital-inducible cytochrome P450 2B2 (Cyp2B2) in hepatic microsomes due to a mutation in a single autosomal gene, with codominant inheritance with respect to protein and mRNA phenotypes (see also M520) (Omiecinski et al, 1992). Provides a useful model for the study of renal microcirculation, which is extremely sensitive to endothelin-1 (Saito et al, 1994)\par MWF \par Inbr. ?. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet.{\i  c}. \par Origin: From outbred Wistar rats selected for large numbers of superficial glomeruli.  \par Characteristics\par Short pentobarbitone sleeping time im males (2/10), Vieregge et al 1987). Males develop spontaneous systemic hypertension and proteinuria of glomerular origin, and glomerularsclerosis. Females develop less severe hypertension and have normal urinary protein excretion rate and no glomerularsclerosis (Remuzzi et al, 1992, Eisenberger et al, 1995).\par NBL \par Inbr. F?+30 (Cr 1989). \par Colour: Black hooded. \par Genet.  {\i a, h}. \par Origin: Bogden in the mid-1970s from Noble (Nb) strain rats (brother x sister mated but not descended from a single pair, and therefore not necessarily isogenic). To Fredrich Cancer Research facility in 1978. Note that the strain name NBL was selected in 1989.  In the literature these rats are called Noble or Nb rats, usually without identifying whether the animals came from the non-isogenic colony of Dr. Noble or from the isogenic colony at the National Cancer Institute (Greenhouse et al 1990). \par Characteristics\par Good reproductive performance. Hyperplasia and dysplasia of the dorsolateral prostate caused by implantation of testosterone and estradiol-17\'a7-filled silastic capsules. Prolonged implantation leads to prostatic carcinoma (Leav et al 1988, 1989).\par NBR \par Inbr. F29. \par Colour: Black. \par Genet. {\i  a}. \par Origin: Poiley 1966 from heterogeneous stock. \par Characteristics\par Good reproductin, active, small. S5B is closely related (see S5B). Uniquely, males do not synthesis \cf0 a{\dn4\cf2 2u}-globulin, and as an apparent consequence do not develop renal hyaline droplets and nephropathy associated with exposure to certain chemicals (Ridder et al 1990, Chatterjee et al 1989). Morphene increases nose-poking behaviour, and phenobarbital decreases it, in contrast with F344 (Witkin and Goldberg, 1992). Intermediate rate of morphine self-administration (LEW high, F344 low), but rapid extinction (Ambrosio et al, 1995).\par NEDH \par Inbr. F?+8 (Sim 1990). \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet.  {\i a, B, c, h, P, R}. \par Origin: Slonaker (Univ. of Chicago ca 1928) rats inbred by S Warren at the New England Deaconess Hospital, to Simonsen Laboratories in 1985 via B Hoffman, Palo Alto, California. To Mollegaard in 1987 (Greenhouse et al 1990). \par Characteristics\par Good reproductive performance. Pheochromocytomas develop spontaneously in 59% of 700-900 day-old males and in 81% of males 900 days or older. Almost always arise in the adrenal medulla, and about 50% occur bilaterally (Manger et al 1985). NEDH carrying transplanted pheochromocytomas have plasma norepinephrine concentrations 40-fold higher than age-matched controls, and provide a model of cardiomyopathy and other effects of prolonged exposure to catecholamines (Prokocimer et al 1987, 1988, Rosenbaum et al 1986, 1987, 1988)\par NER    \par Inbr. F23 (Sept. 1995). \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. c. \par Origin: From Crj: Wistar rats purchased from Charles River Japan in July 1985. Developed by A. Noda, Tokyo University of Agriculture, Hokkaido,  from a cross of mutant rats with spontaneous tonic-clonic seizures (Noda et al. 1998).  Susceptible to seizures induced by pentylenetetrazol, tossing and transcorneal electric shock, but not tactile, photic or acoustic stimuli or transauricular electric shock.  No pathologic changes have been found in the CNS. The condition appears to be inherited as an autosomal recessive gene and is comparable to generalised tonic-clonic seizures in humans. Maintained by Has.\par NIG-III \par Inbr. F78. (Hok). \par Colour: Pink-eyed yellow. \par Genet. {\i  a, p}{\i\up4 m}{\up4} . \par Origin: From a mating in 1956 between a wild rat trapped in Misima, Japan, and Castle's black rat. To Hokkaido in 1975. Work on characterisation of RT1 summarised by Natori (1987).\par NSD \par Inbr. F68. \par Colour: Albino, \par Genet.{\i c}. \par Origin: NIH, Bethesda, 1964 from a non-inbred (Sprague-Dawley) stock. \par Characteristics\par Used for studies of mammary carcinomas. High systolic blood pressure (4/17), intermediate breeding performance (6/12) and litter size (5/12) (Hansen et al 1973). Low relative heart weight in 10-week old males (5/23) (Tanase et al 1982). Slow acetylator due to polymorphism of N-acetyltransferase (like WKY but contrast PETH) (Juberg et al, 1991)\par NZR \par Inbr. F32+. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i  c}. \par Origin: Subline of AS2 separated at F32. \par Characteristics\par  Tumours (atriocaval epithelial mesotheliomas) of right atrium or inferior vena cava occur in approximately 12-20% of animals of both sexes over 1 year. These tumours are slow growing, but apparently malignant, and closely resemble similar tumours found in humans (Goodall et al 1975). In a later study, most common neoplasms of animal over one year of age: atrioclaval mesotheliomas 12%, lung adenomas 10% (males), pituitary adenomas 23%, mammary tumours 7%, liver tumours 3%, cervical tumours 3% (in females) (Goodall and Doesburg 1981).\par ODU \par Inbr.F32. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet.{\i  c}. \par Origin: From outbred Wistar Kyoto stock inbred by N Ito, Osaka Dental University. Selected for susceptibility to development of dental plaque (Ito et al 1975). To NIH in 1977 at F3 (Hansen et al 1982). \par Characteristics\par  Formation of dental plaque independent of type of diet fed (Ito et al 1977). Azuma et al (1978, 1979) have shown that the strain is useful for studying the relationship between dental plaque bacterial flora, especially {\i Corynebacterium}, and gingivitis. Several other bacteria involved in plaque formation, including species of genera {\i Streptococcus, Viellonella, Neisseria, Staphylococcus, Bacteriodes, Leptotrichia, Fusobacterium, Actinomyces, Nocardia, and Diphtheroides} (Ito et al 1975, Azuma et al 1979). Rat plaque differs from human plaque in content of extractable hexose, inorganic salts, and amino acid composition (Azuma et al 1978).  Excellent reproductive performance.\par ODUS \par Inbr. F42. \par Colour: Albino\par\par Genet. c. \par Origin: As for ODU, but maintained at Osaka Dental University. \par Characteristics\par Rats exhibit markedly heavy plaque formation on the lower incisors and develop both periodontal pocket and gingivitis after being fed with a commercial powdered diet (Shinohara et al 1991). Pocket depth was correlated with the amount of salivary sialic acid in pilocarpine-stimulated saliva, but not with serum sialic acid (Shinohara et al, 1994).\par OKA \par Inbr.F20+. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i c.} \par Origin: From faculty of Medicine, Kyoto, Japan to Dr. J Roba, Machelen, Belgium 1970, to Dr. H Bazin 1971 (Bazin 1977). Should probably regarded as a subline of SHR, though skin grafts between OKA and SHR are rejected after 30-45 days.\par OLETF   \par Inbr. F46 (Otk, 1996).\par Colour: Black hooded\par Genet. {\i a,B,C,h.}\par Origin:  Developed by Kazuya Kawano, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Tokushima, Japan from Long-Evans outbred stock in 1983.\par Characteristics\par Develops late onset of hyperglycemia (at about 18 weeks of age), hyperinsulinemia and mild obesity, mostly in males, that closely resembles non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus in humans associated with a sex-linked gene {\i Odb-1} (Kawano et al, 1994, Hirashima et al, 1995). Has a selective defect in the binding of cholecystokinin-8 to its receptors on the acinar cell surfaces (Otsuki et al, 1995, Funakoshi et al, 1995). Treatment with insulin was effective in preventing B-cell dysfunction and morphological changes of the pancreas (Ishida et al, 1995)\par OM \par Inbr. F100 (NIH 1989). \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i c}. \par Origin: Heston 1946 from non-inbred Osborne-Mendel stock obtained from J White, to NIH at F10 (Hansen et al 1982). \par Characteristics\par Spontaneous thyroid carcinoma 33% (Lindsey et al 1968). Adrenal cortical tumours 94% and pituitary tumours 8-18% at 18 months (Hansen et al 1973). In animals over 18 months Snell found adenomas or carcinomas of adrenal cortex 73% in males and 95% in females, pituitary tumours 25%, granulosa cell tumours of the ovary 33% in females. Animals were also relatively resistant to development of nephritis (Snell 1965). Poor survival to 2-years of age at 43% (rank 5/5) in males and 38% (rank 5/5) in females with relatively severe chronic renal disease and an intermediate level of hydronephrosis which may make the strain unsuitable for long-term toxicity studies (Solleveld and Boorman 1986). High blood pressure (3/23), reaching 154_1.0 (SEM) mmHg at 10 weeks of age (Tanase et al 1982). Mammary tumours 26-30%. High incidence of retinal degeneration in animals over 10 months (von Sallman and Grimes 1972, 1974). High systolic blood pressure (2/17) (Hansen et al 1973).\par Becomes obese on a high fat diet (1/7) (Schemmel et al 1970, Buchanan et al, 1992). Enterostatin inhibited the uptake of high, but not low fat diets after an overnight fast (contrast strain S5B) (Okada et al, 1992). Intermediate breeding performance (8/12) and good litter size (4/12) (Hansen et al 1973). Very susceptible to chronic respiratory disease (Greenhouse et al 1991). Used in studies of effects of fluoride on tooth enamel and dental plaque by Shern and Couet (1979) and  Shern et al (1979). High 10-week body weight in males (20/23) (Tanase et al 1982).\par OXYR\par Inbr>75.\par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i c.} \par Origin: Developed in 1972 at the Institute of Cytology and Genetics, Russian Academy of Sciences (Novosibirsk)  by Salganik and Solovyova from Wistar stock, in contrast to OXYS rat strain by selection for resistance to cataractogenic effect of galactose rich diet and brother-sister mating of highly resistant rats. In 1992, due to new findings, the symbol R was assigned to this strain. However, since this R symbol  has previously been used to designate the Dahl Salt resistant strain, the symbol now assigned  to this strain is OXYR.To Division of Laboratory Animal Medicine, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 1994 at F72.\par Characteristics\par Resistant to cataractogenic effect of galactose-rich diet (Solovyova et al 1975). Good breeding performance. Monosaccharide transport into the cells and the levels of hydroxyl radical generation and lipid peroxydation are close to that in the healthy Wistar rats. \par OXYS\par Inbr.F>75. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i c.} \par Origin: Developed in 1972 at the Institute of Cytology and Genetics, Russian Academy of Sciences (Novosibirsk) by Salganik and Solovyova from Wistar stock by selection for susceptibility to cataractogenic effect of galactose-rich diet and brother-sister mating of highly susceptible rats (Solovyova et al 1975). In 1992, due to new findings, the S symbol was assigned to this strain. However, since this S symbol has previously been used to designate the Dahl Salt Sensitive strain the symbol assigned to the strain is now: OXYS. To the Division of Laboratory Animal Medicine, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 1994 at F72.\par Characteristics\par Inherited overproduction of free radicals, high levels of lipid peroxidation, protein oxidation, DNA rearrangements, morbid conditions mimicking human degenerative diseases: cataract, emphysema, cardiomyopathy, carcinogenesis; short life-span and low fecundity. Intensive transport of monosaccharides into the cells (Salganik et al 1994).\par P77PMC \par Inbr.>20. \par Colour: Albino, \par{\i Genet. c}. \par Origin: Wistar rats from Beijing Medical College in 1977. \par Characteristics\par 70% incidence of audigenic seizures, and also susceptible to the development of hyperthermia-induced (45{\up4 o}C) convulsions, after which they are resistant to audiogenic seizures but still more susceptible to kainate-induced limbic seizures than controls (Zhao et al 1985). Cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) decreases seizure susceptibility with a depression of release of  K+-stimulated GABA in cerebral cortex synaptosomes (Wu and Lin, 1992, Zhang et al, 1992). A low cerebral content of CCK-8 may account for the high susceptibility to audiogenic seizures (Zhang et al, 1993, Chen et al, 1994)\par PA \par Inbr. F180. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet.{\i  c.} \par Origin: King 1909 from Wistar Institute stock, to Aptekman in 1946 at F135, to Bogden 1958 at F155. The oldest inbred strain of rats. WKA is probably a parallel subline of this strain.  Vigorous (and vicious), healthy, good reproduction.\par PETH \par Inbr. F71. \par Colour: Pink-eyed tan-hooded. \par Genet.  {\i a, h, p}. \par Origin: Bourne 1938, to Sidman at F9N1, to NIH in 1966 at F9N1F18. Should probably be regarded as a subline of RCS. \par Characteristics\par  Carries gene for retinal dystrophy ({\i rdy}), causing cataracts by about 3 months of age. Secondary effects include unusual lens reflection and persistant hyaloid artery (Hansen et al 1973) Low systolic blood pressure (13/17) (Hansen et al 1973). Low blood pressure (19/23), reaching 124_1.7 (SEM) mmHg at 10 weeks of age (Tanase et al 1982). Low 10-week body weight in males (3/23) (Tanase et al 1982). Good reproductive performance.\par Rapid acetylator due to polymorphism of N-acetyltransferase (contrast WKY and NSD) (Juberg et al, 1991)\par PKD (reserved designation)\par Inbr.F16 . \par Colour: Albino\par Genet.  {\i cy}/+\par Origin: Outbred Han:SPRD-{\i cy/+} Sprague-Dawley rats from the Zentralinstitut fur Versuchstierkunde, Hannover, Germany to Dr. Bettina Kranzlin, Mannheim, Germany. Brother x sister inbreeding started in 1991.\par Characteristics\par Develops polycystic kidney disease (Kaspareit-Rittinghausen et al, 1990) with cystic transformation of renal tubules as well as severe intersticial fibrosis (alterations of extracellular matrix) and inflammation (Gretz et al, 1996) due to an dominant gene designated PKDr1 on chromosome 5 (Bihoreau et al, 1997).  Heterozygous rats have a moderate progression of the disease, while homozygotes have a rapid progression and die by about 3-4 weeks of age. There is uremia, protinuria, hyperlipidemia and hypertension in males older than 10 months. Clinical signs are seen in males at about 8 months, with death at 14-17 months and in females clinical signs are seen at 12 months and death is usually after 17 months of age. Liver and pancreatic cysts are common in females over 17 months of age (Kranzlin et al, 1997).\par PSDO \par Origin: Reserved symbol for strain in development now at F6 (NIH 1989).\par PVG \par Inbr. F70+?. \par Colour: Black hooded. \par Genet.  {\i a,C, h}. \par Origin: Kings College of Household Science, to Lister Institute, to Virol, to Glaxo 1946. Inbred by Glaxo. A substrain PVG/cBkl, which is C6 complement deficient due, presumably, to a spontaneous mutation has been described. In good environmental conditions it is perfectly healthy (Leenaerts et al, 1994).\par Characteristics\par Docile and good breeding performance. Low defaecation and activity in an open field in Broadhurst's subline. Haematology; Low RBC (1/7), Hb (1/7), PCV (1/7), WBC (1/7) high MCV (7/7), MCH (7/7), Lovell et al (1981). Resistant to experimental allergic encephaloymelitis (Hughes and Stedronska 1973). Resistant to the induction of autoimmune thyroiditis (Rose 1975).  Susceptible to the development of  Mycobacterially induced adjuvent arthritis (Harbuz et al, 1992). Congenic strain PVG.RT1{\up4 u} is resistant to type II collagen-induced arthritis (Morgan et al, 1992).\par Suceptible to infection by {\i Entamoeba histolytica} (Neal and Harris 1975). Lower incidence of polyspermia than in WAG (Braden 1958). A subline with a chromosome marker analogous to the CBA-T6 mouse strain has been developed by Howard (1971), and PVG is used as the genetic background strain for a number of RT1 and other congenic strains (eg Chisholm et al 1977, Hunt and Fowler 1981). Short gestation period (2/8) (Peters 1986). Resistant to the development of glomerular sclerosis following unilateral nephrectomy, in contrast to Wistar and most other rat strains (Grond et al 1986). Moderately sensitive to the development of experimental glomerulonephritis following injection of nephritogenic antigen from bovine renal basement membrane  (Naito et al, 1991)\par Resistant (4/4) to ocular infection with herpes simplex virus with 60% survival after infection with 10{\up4 4} plaque forming units. LEW was relatively susceptible; all died after infection with 4x10{\up4 2} pfu (Nicholls et al, 1994). Develops less inflammation than AO following injection of and E1-deleted non-replicating human adenovirus type 5 vector (Byrnes et al, 1995)\par Susceptible to tissue injury following dosing with 1.0 or 1.33 g/kg of sodium chloride with 80% submucosal oedema compared with only 10% in Sprague-Dawley (Fraser et al, 1992).\par R\par Inbr. F78. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i  c}.\par Origin: Muhlbock from a Wistar stock in 1947. A  congenic strain with hyperbilirubinaemia and jaundice has been developed by Leyten et al (1986) by backcrossing the jaundice gene j (the Gunn rat) onto strain R.\par RCS \par Inbr. F22 (NIH 1989). \par Colour: Pink-eyed, tan-hooded. \par Genet.  {\i a, h, p}. \par Origin: Developed before 1965 by Sidman from stock obtained from Sorsby of the Royal College of Surgeons, London (Sidman and Pearlstein 1965). PETH is a presumed subline. \par Characteristics\par Carries gene for retinal dystrophy, which causes over-production of rhodopsin and progressive loss of photoreceptor cells beginning in the third postnatal week. Cataracts develop in 24% of rats and there is a 4% incidence of microphthalmia. Hess et al (1985) found that the incidence of cataracts could be altered by the diet. A congenic strain RCS-p/+ has been developed in which the retinal dystrophy develops more slowly (LaVail and Battelle 1975, LaVail et al 1975, Essner et al 1979, Essner et al 1978). Mean litter size 6.8_0.1 (SEM). Body weight plateaus at 5-6 months at about 185g in females and 275g in males (La Vail et al 1975). Work with chimeric rats shows that the {\i rdy} gene acts in pigment epithelial cells rather than in photoreceptor cells (Mullen and LaVail 1976). During postnatal development of rod outer segments of normal animals, the number of phagosomes found 1-2 hrs. after the onset of light increases steadily until adult levels are reached by day 35. Phagosomes in RCS rats do not increase after day 15 (Tamai and O'Brien 1979). Electrical activity, rhodopsin content, rod structure and extracellular lamellae are retained longer when animals are reared in the dark (Dowling and Sidman 1962, Kaitz 1976, Kaitz and Auerbach 1979). Biochemical and cytological differences between the retinas of RCS and control animals have been reported by Lolly and Farber (1975,1976), Essner et al (1978), Essner and Gorrin (1979), Wiggert et al (1978), and Tamai and O'Brien (1979). Daily administration of 160 mg/kg of acetyl salicylic acid and ibuprofen leads to an appreciable retardation in the process of retinal degeneration (Elhifnawi et al, 1992). Instability of the lysosomal membrane in the pigment epithelium may initiate degeneration of photoreceptors and pigment epithelium (Elhifnawi et al, 1994).\par Low relative heart weight in 10-week old males (3/23) (Tanase et al 1982).\par Other papers using RCS include Thanos (1992), Atkinson et al, (1992), Thanos and Richter (1993),  Elhifnawi (1995), Ueda and Steinberg, (1993)\par RHA/N \par Inbr. F48 (NIH 1989). \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet.{\i  c}. \par Origin: Bignami selected for high avoidance conditioning with light as a conditioned stimulus and electric shock as the unconditioned stimulus (Bignami 1965). To NIH in 1968 where b x s mating was initiated. (Note: The original outbred stock, and possibly some independently derived strains are still in existance, so the "N" qualifier has been retained to distinguish this particular strain). \par Characteristics\par Good reproductive performance. Behavioural characteristics have been described by Dutsch and Battig (1977), Driscoll et al (1979), Fumm and Battig (1979), Martin (1979). A congenic strain carrying the jaundice mutation (j) from the Gunn strain of rats has been developed by Dr. Carl Hansen, NIH (Chowdhury et al 1987). Low levels of cadmium failed to increase one-way avoidance in juvenie rats, in contrast with outbred heterogeneous stock rats (Pelletier and Satinder, 1991). Post-natal handling induced long-lasting changes in both RHA and RLA rats with a decrease in emotional reactivity and an increase in exploratory activity. RHA rats show more head dipping behaviour than RLA, but environmental treatments can increase this to the level seen in RHA (Fernandezteruel et al, 1992a). Compared with RLA, RHA performed less well in three tests of working memory and had higher exploratory activity. RU 41656 induced a significant improvement in working memory performance in RHA, but it had no effect in RLA (Willig et al, 1992). No differences between RHA and RLA could be found in basal hypothalamo-pituitary adrenocortical axis activity or in response to different protocols of novel environmental stress, but stimulated prolactin levels were higher in RLA (Castanon et al, 1992).\par Other papers comparing RHA and RLA include Fernandezteruel et al, (1992b, 1993, 1994), Roozendaal et al, (1992, 1993), Fechtali et al, (1993), Giorgi et al, (1994), Castanon et al, (1994), Castanon and Mormede (1994), Haney et al, (1994), Chaouloff et al, (1994), Charnay et al, (1995), Aubry et al, (1995), Escorihuela et al, (1995), Castanon et al, (1995), Kulikov et al, (1995), Siegel et al, (1993)\par RII/1 \par Inbr. F36. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i  c}. \par Origin: Tif from outbred Sprague-Dawley stock received from Ivanovas, Germany (Greenhouse et al 1991).\par RII/2 (Reserved symbol)\par Inbr. ?  \par Colour: Albino, \par Genet.{\i  c}. \par Origin: From outbred Sprague-Dawley stock received from IFFA Credo, France has been brother x sister mated for 16 generations (Greenhouse et al 1991).\par RLA/N \par Inbr. F33. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet.{\i  c}. \par Origin: Bignami selected for high avoidance conditioning with light as a conditioned stimulus and electric shock as an unconditioned stimulus (Bignami 1965). This outbred stock to NIH in 1968 where brother x sister mating was initiated. See also RHA. Note that the original outbred stock and other independently-derived inbred strains may differ in characteristics. Behavioural characteristics described by Driscoll et al (1979) and Fumm and Battig (1979). See RHA for details of comparative studies involving both strains.\par RP \par Inbr. F?+35. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet.{\i  a, c, h}. \par Origin: Muhlbock, Amsterdam, 1947, from Wistar stock. To University of Leiden in 1958. To Erasmus University, Rotterdam in 1968. To Rijswick in 1982 (Greenhouse et al 1991).\par S5B \par Inbr. N5F38. \par Colour: Albino,{\i  }\par Genet. {\i a, c}. \par Origin: Poiley 1955 from a cross of outbred NBR rats x Sprague-Dawley, with five generations of backcrossing of the albino gene followed by sib mating. \par Characteristics\par High tolerance to toxic compounds (?). Good learning. Resistant to dietary induction of obesity (1/7) (Schemmel et al 1970, Buchanan et al, 1992). Enterostatin had no effect on the uptake of high, versus low fat diets after an overnight fast (contrast strain OM) (Okada et al, 1992). Moderate exercise in young females failed to reduce body fat (Schemmel et al, 1992). However, voluntary running in rats fed high fat or high carbohydrate diets resulted in significant weight loss, with a reduction in the weight of fat depots (Chang et al, 1995)\par SBH \par Inbr. F20+. \par Origin: "{\i Sa}bra {\i H}ypertensive" Hebrew University Sabra outbred rats with brother x sister mating and selection for high blood pressure following unilateral nephrectomy and treatment with deoxycorticosterone and sodium chloride (Ben-Ishay et al 1981, Ben-Ishay 1984, Ben-Ishay and Yagli, 1994 who also reviews their characteristics). \par Characteristics\par SBH rats are generally heavier and their blood pressure is about 20mmHg higher than SBN rats. Occasionally a measurable degree of spontaneous hypertension is observed, but large differences are observed between SBH and SBN following treatment with hypertension-inducing agents such as chronic excess dietary sodium (see also Mekler et al 1985) or the clipping of one renal artery. The rats have a preference for drinking saline compared with water  and show a decreased diuretic and natriuretic response to acute saline loading. Erythrocytes have an increased passive permeability to sodium ions. The rats also show an enhanced norepinephrine turnover and an impaired baroreflex function in young rats which seems to precede the development of hypertension (Ben-Ishay and Yagil, 1994, Yagil et al, 1995, LeJossec et al, 1995a,b)\par SBN \par Inbr. F20+. \par Origin: As for SBH, but selected for low blood pressure as a normotensive control strain for SBH. See SBH  (Ben-Ishay 1984).\par SC  \par Inbr. F54. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet.{\i  a, c, h.} \par Origin: Outbred Wistar Imamichi. Has small eyes and cataract (Proc. 8th. ICLAS Symposium, Gustav Fischer Verlag pp353-360)\par SD/Rij \par Inbr. F28 (Rij). \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet.{\i  c}. \par Origin: From Sprague-Dawley stock of an unknown source to Hoechst, Frankfurt. To O. Haferkamp, University of Ulm, to ITRI-TNO Rijswijk, The Netherlands in 1972 (van Hooft 1990). Note that other sublines of "SD" rats (including SD/A, SD/Cpb, and SD/Waa) are known to differ among themselves, and from this strain (Bender et al 1984, Festing and Bender 1984). \par Characteristics\par Less sensitive to the induction of mammary tumours by DMBA than two samples of outbred Sprague-Dawley rats; mean life-span 743_22 days (van Zwieten et al 1984)\par SDJ \par Inbr. F50. \par Colour: Albino, \par Genet. {\i a,c}. \par Origin: Takeda Chemical Industries from Sprague-Dawley stock, to Hokkaido in 1966.\par SDNK \par Inbr. F90 (1991). \par Colour: Albino.\par Genet. {\i c.} \par Origin: Sprague-Dawley outbred rats inbred since 1967 by Dr. K Yasutomi, Nippon Inst. for Biological Sciences, Japan.\par SEL \par Inbr. F28. \par Colour: Black, \par Genet. {\i a}. \par Origin: Dunning 1948. Probably extinct.\par SHHF \par Inbr. N7F?. \par Colour: Albino, \par Genet. {\i c}. \par Origin: JE Miller of GD Searle to Sylvia McCune in 1983. Corpulent gene ({\i cp}) partially backcrossed to SHR/N, followed by brother x sister mating (with some exceptions). Originally designated SHR/N-{\i cp}, but re-named to avoid confusion with the strain described by Michaelis and Hansen (1990) which has been backcrossed to N14. Strain is maintained by matings of proven {\i cp/+} heterozygotes, and in some cases {\i cp/cp} homozygous males have proved to be fertile. \par Characteristics\par SHHR rats all develop hypertension and congestive heart failure.  {\i cp/cp} males develop obesity, fasting hyperglycemia, polyurea, hypercholesterolemia, proteinuria and abnormal glucose tolerance. The obese females do not develop fasting hyperglycemia, but are hyperinsulinemic and have some glucose intolerance to an oral load. There is a suggestion that {\i cp/+} rats are more likely to develop congestive heart failure than +/+ animals (McCune et al 1990). Development of elevated insulin levels were first noted in the obese females at six weeks of age, however, marked hyperinsulinemia developed only in the obese males at ten weeks of age. Similarly, elevated glucose levels were associated with obese animals and markedly elevated levels of glucose associated with diabetes were present in the obese males at ten weeks of age (Hoversland, 1992). Declines in calcium sequestration by the sarcoplasmic reticulum of ventricular cardiomyocytes from obese, hypertensive SHHF rats are not related to the obesity. However, obesity may contribute to a decline in cAMP production (Hohl et al, 1993). A single acute exercise session  improved, but did not normalise whole body insulin resistance in obese animals (Gao et al, 1994). Mechanical alterations in failing hearts is due to altered reactions of the sarcoplasmic reticulum, but a decreased rate of Ca2+ accumulation is not the primary cause (Narayan et al, 1995). 17-beta-estradil increased the levels of estrogen receptor in male rat livers (Kortnik et al, 1995). There are differences in left ventricular remodelling which may explain the earlier development of heart failure in this strain (Hass et al, 1995)\par SHR  \par Inbr. F70 (NIH 1989). \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet.{\i  c}. \par Origin: Okamoto 1963 from outbred Wistar Kyoto rats. Bred from a male with mild hypertension, mated with a female with high blood pressure. Brother x sister mating with continued selection for high blood pressure (Okamoto 1969, Okamoto et al 1972). A number of sublines have been developed with a tendency to develop cardiovascular lesions and stroke (see particularly SHRSP) (Nagaoka et al 1976), and hypercholesterolemia (Yamori 1984). For a recent review see Yamori, (1994).  However, there is no evidence for substrain differentiation among SHR stocks from the major commercial suppliers in the USA both respect to phenotype and DNA fingerprints (Blizard et al, 1991).\par Strain WKY, developed from the same base populations is sometimes used as a normotensive control, though its use as such must be questioned as it differs at many genetic marker loci (Festing and Bender 1984, and see also strain WKY). Stelzin et al (1992) found  that SHR and WKY shared only 50% of their DNA fingerprint bands, whereas SS and DS shared about 80% of bands. Most authorities suggest that WKY alone is not a good control strain, and that for most comparative studies several normotensive strains should be used. \par There is an extensive literature on the characteristics of SHR. DeJong (1984) provides a useful comparative review of this and other hypertensive strains, and there are regular symposia on hypertensive rat strains (see J. Hypertension 4(suppl):S1-S541, 1986, and  Jpn. Heart J. 28:567-648).\par Characteristics. \par High blood pressure (2/23), reaching 171_2.0 (SEM) mmHg at 10 weeks of age (Tanase et al 1982). According to Yamori (1984), the rats develop hypertension spontaneously without exception at the age of 7-15 weeks. There is a systolic blood pressure plateau of about 200 mmHg. The genetic basis is polygenic, with at least three major genes involved (Tanase and Suzuki 1971, Yen et al 1974). There is a high incidence of cardiovascular disease (Okamoto et al 1973), but a low incidence of stroke which can be increased to about 30% with chronic stress (Yamori 1984). Alloxan diabetes further increases blood pressure, but the animals respond to anti-hypertensive drugs (Okamoto 1969). Yamori states that SHR rats show a functional increase in peripheral vascular resistance, which mostly depend on neurogenic mechanisms which probably originate in a disorder of central blood pressure regulation. The blood pressure {\i per se} and increased neurogenic tone accelerate cardiovascular protein synthesis and induce structural vascular changes which contribute to the maintenance of the hypertension. Studies on cultured vascular smooth muscle suggest a genetic predisposition to hyperplastic growth of these cells and its stimulation by \'a7-adrenergic mechanisms. According to Dietz et al (1984) there is an abnormality of intracellular electrolyte balance with increased intracellular sodium and calcium concentration. Grobecker et al (1975) found that in young SHR rats the plasma levels of both noradrenaline and dopamine-\'a7-hydroxylase were increased over control WKY rats, but total catecholamines were not significantly different. Catecholamine content of the adrenals was reduced. Circulating thyrotrophin levels were markedly elevated over two control strains (Werner et al 1975). There was a reduced {\up4 131}I metabolism and increased thyroid weight relative to Wistar controls (Fregley 1975). Reduction of dietary vitamin E prevents the development of hypertension, possibly due to a significant increase in prostaglandin catabolism (Pace-Asciak and Carrara 1979). Caloric restriction lowers blood pressure (Young et al 1978).  Environmental and dietary factors cna influence the degree of hypertension (Yamori et al 1979, 1986). A high (8%) salt diet increased systolic blood pressure, but not so much as in strain SS/Jr (Adams and Blizard, 1991). A polymorphism in the heat shock protein 70 (hsp70) mapping in the RT1 complex was found to be associated with variation in blood pressure of 15mm Hg among recombinant inbred strains (Hamet et al, 1992). Strain is significantly more sensitive to the hypotensive effects of GABA than normotensive Sprague-Dawley or WKY rats, with evidence that the effects are mediated by the brain angiotensin system (Roberts et al, 1993). Plasma renin and angiotensin II levels are not elevated (Cambell et al, 1995). Glucose turnover in lean and obese (carrying the fatty gene) SHR rats has been described by Berdanier et al, (1993). There is reduced cancellous bone mass in SHR compared with WKY (Wang et al, 1993). The Y-chromosome of SHR increases blood pressure when backcrossed to strain WKY for 11 generations (Ely et al, 1993). There is a deficit in visual acuity at 40-66 days, prior to the onset of hypertension, and it is particularly marked in the blue spectrum (Rogers et al, 1993).\par Low 10-week body weight in males (2/23) (Tanase et al 1982). High relative heart weight in 10-week old males (22/23) (Tanase et al 1982). SHR rats express insulin resistance, and are a suitable model for insulin resistance and essential hypertension in non-obese humans (Swislocki and Tsuzuki, 1993).\par Have fewer glomeruli than WKY rats, but they are of similar size, resulting in a reduced glomerular volume. This is consistent with the hypothesis that the kidney plays an important role in hypertension ( Skov et al, 1994). Foetal but not placental  weight is reduced compared with WKY (Johnston, 1995).\par Genetically resistant to the induction of mammary tumours by dimethylbenz(a)anthracene due to a blockade of tumour promotion (Harris et al, 1994).\par Roba (1976) concluded that the strain is a suitable model for screening anti-hypertensive drugs.\par The "Committee on the care and use of hypertensive rats (1976)" has issued guidelines for the breeding and care of this strain.\par A congenic strain carrying the "corpulent" gene (cp), an allele of fatty ({\i fa}) has been developed and is described by Michaelis and Hansen (1990). Homozygotes develop both metabolic and histopathologic characteristics associated with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (type II) in humans. It is unique among rat strains in that glucose intolerance is expressed in both sexes. A similar strain, in which the fatty ({\i fa}) gene has been backcrossed to SRH for five generations has been described by Chanh et al (1988) Homozygous fatty rats were heavier than fa/+ litter mates, with blood pressure elevated above that of SHR animals. Blood glucose content was not different from SHR, but plasma triglycerides were increased by more than 500% from an early age.\par SHR rats are hyperactive and may be a useful model for childhood hyperkinesis and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (Sagvolden et al, 1993).\par SHROB\par Origin: Reserved symbol for strain in development by Dr. Richard Koletsky.\par SHRSP \par Inbr. F59. \par Colour: Albino, \par Genet. {\i c}. \par Origin: The A1-sb and A3 substrains of SHR which had been bred as parallel lines from F20 to F36 were crossed (?) and further inbred with selection of offspring of parents that died of stroke (Okamoto et al 1974, 1986, Yamori 1984). To NIH in 1976, and designated SHRSP/A3N. Pathophysiology reviewed by Volpe and Rabbatu (1994).\par Characteristics. \par High blood pressure (1/23), reaching 187_2.2 (SEM) mmHg at 10 weeks of age (Tanase et al 1982). The hypertension has been extensively reviewed by Yamori (1984) as follows: Cerebral hemorrhage or infarction in 82% of males over 100 days of age and 58% of females over 150 days of age. The main sites are the anteriomedial and occipital cortex, and the basal ganglia. They have a higher blood pressure (by 40-50 mmHg) than SHR, and in both strains the blood pressure is maintained by higher peripheral vascular resistance which at first is due to neurogenic vasoconstriction. Membrane changes may be involved. Regional cerebral blood flow is reduced, especially in areas of the brain fed by recurrent branches. Body weight is lower than in SHR. Signs of stroke include piloerection, hyperkinesis, hyperirritability, aggressiveness and motion disturbance. \par Stroke in these rats is affected by both genetic and environmental factors. Hypertension, vascular wall changes, and salt metabolism as well as a reduction in cerebral blood flow are important systemic and local factors in the stroke. Stroke is prevented by antihypertensive agents and the incidence can be modified by diet, being reduced by the inclusion of fish and vegetable oils. Excessive salt intake increases hypertension and its complications. A high protein diet attenuated the development of severe hypertension, and counteracted the adverse effect of salt. High relative heart weight in 10-week old males (23/23) (Tanase et al 1982). Liver gangliosides are of the b-type (cf WKAH) (Kasai et al 1993). There was no evidence for co-segregation between blood pressure and the angiotensinogen locus, or any other phenotypic parameter in crosses involving WKY (Hubner et al, 1994, 1995).\par SPRD \par Inbr. F34 (Han 1989). \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet.  {\i a, B, c, h, P, R}. \par Origin: From outbred Han:SPRD (Sprague-Dawley) rats. Dominant pelage mutation designated curly-3 (Cu3) occured in 1975 at the Gesellschaft fur Strahlenforschung, Dortmund, Germany. Mutant animals returned to Hannover where inbreeding begun in 1976 (Greenhouse et al 1990). Good reproductive performance.\par SR \par Inbr.F54. \par Colour: Albino,{\i  }\par Genet{\i . c. }\par Origin: Rapp from a Sprague-Dawley outbred  colony developed by LK Dahl, Brookhaven National Laboratories, Upton, New York, selected for resistance to salt-induced hypertension  (Dahl et al 1962a,b). Also designated R/JR by Rapp (1984), and Dahl R by Mollegard, Copenhagen. \par Characteristics\par Hypertension and vascular and renal lesions do not develop on a high (8%) salt diet (cf SS, see for example, Pontremoli et al, 1992). Mild hydronephrosis at 4 months of age that is probably genetically determined (Rapp and Dene 1985). Has mutant form of cytochrome P450(11-beta) (Matsukawa et al, 1993). Has lower  transepithelial, unidirectional,  sodium flux than SS and Sprague-Dawley which may be associated with its resistance to the development of hypertension on a high salt diet (Kudo et al, 1994).\par SS \par Inbr. F42. \par Colour: Albino,{\i  }\par Genet. {\i c.} \par Origin: Rapp from a colony of Sprague-Dawley outbred rats developed by LK Dahl, Brookhaven National Laboratories, Upton, New York, selected for sensitivity to salt-induced hypertension  (Dahl et al 1962a,b, Rapp 1982). Also designated S/JR by Rapp (1984), who gives an extensive review of the characteristics of the strain, and Dahl S by Mollegard, Copenhagen.  Note that the Dahl selected strain has been independently inbred at the NIH, and designated DSS/N. There is likely to be confusion among these colonies unless considerable care is taken with nomenclature.\par Stlezin et al (1992) found that SS and SR had about 80% of DNA fingerprint bands in common, compared with 50% between SHR and WKY. According to Ginn et al, (1993) analysis of RFLPs and microsatellites suggest that SR is a reasonably good control strain for SS, though  crosses between SS and unrelated normotensive strains will be useful in dientifying the loci responsibe for salt-induced hypertension. \par Characteristics:\par Produce one litter of about 8 pups, but second litter is small due to hypertension. Develop fulminant hypertension and marked vascular and renal lesions after 3-4 weeks on a high salt (8% NaCl) diet, and all die within eight weeks (Rapp and Dene, 1985), though on a low (0.3% NaCl) salt diet they survive well though they also develop marked hypertension, but with a slower rise in blood pressure. Blood pressure is also increased by dietary potassium (Rapp 1984). Kidney transplantation experients between SS and SR suggest that part of the sensitivity is due to the kidney, and SS rats have 15% fewer glomeruli than SR rats (Rapp 1984). There was no evidence of genetic effects on blood pressure operating through the early maternal intrauterine or foster environments (Dene and Rapp 1985). \par There is a defect of atrial natriuretic factor, possibly involving hyporesponsive kidneys and decreased release of atrial natriuretic factor from atria (Snajdar and Rapp 1985). Have a lower blood pressure on a low salt diet (0.3%) than SHR, but a high (8%) salt diet increased systolic pressure significantly more than in strain SHR (Adams and Blizard, 1991). \par Blood pressure defect may depend on a defective dopamine DA{\up4 1} receptor, though the ability to excrete an acute saline load is not impaired suggesting that other systems involved in sodium homeostasis compensate for the defect in this strain (Hansell, 1995). Levels of IgG but not IgM or IgA are decreased in young pre-hypertensive rats compared with SR, and renal dysfunction is manifested by increased excretion of high molecular weight proteins including albumin and immunoglobulins (Cowen et al, 1991). The mesenteric vasculature of rats on a high salt diet is supersensitive to nerve stimulation and to norepinephrine. This may be explained by hyperernoradrenergic innervation, elevated neuropeptide Y innervation or altered release of transmitter (Kong el al, 1991). \par Naloxone produces a slight attenuation of hypertension, but this may be secondary to suppression of food intake and hence of salt (Johnson and richmond, 1992). F1 hybrids between SS and SHR raised by SHR feamles weighed less at 35 days and after exposure to a high salt diet developed high blood pressure more rapidly than those reared by SS mothers (Blizard and Adams, 1992). The maternal environment is considered to be an important determinant of blood pressure in crosses involving SS, SHR and WKY (McCarthy et al, 1992). Diminished myogenic responsiveness of afferent arterioles and interlobular arteries contributes to impared renal autoregulation (Takenaka et al, 1992).  \par A high sucrose (52%) diet also leads to elevation of blood pressure, which is more rapid in SS than in SR or F344 (Preuss et al, 1992). Treatment with the novel anti-hypertensive drug cicletanine reduced blood pressure in SS rats fed a high salt diet, and ameliorated functional and morphological injury to the kidney. This correlated with attenuation of lipid peroxidation in kidney homogenate, indicating that cicletanine is an antioxidant that protects SS rats from hypertension (Uehara et al, 1993a). Indapamide is another antioxidant that has protective effects (Uehara et al, 1993b). Increased arteriolar tone may be due to a localised hyperresponsiveness to tissue metabolites (Rafi and Boegehold, 1993). Long-term L-argenine administration prevents hypertension and normalises the pressure-natriuretic response. This is not due to the prevention of renal damage and is specific to the salt-sensitive strain. It may be in part due to an improvement in autoregulation of glomerular filtration rate (Patel et al, 1993). The endothelin-3 gene is, or is linked to, a locus on chromosome 3 that regulates blood pressure and heart weight in crosses involving SS x SR, but not in populations with a higher percentage of genes from SR (Cicila et al, 1994). The inheritance of salt-dependent hypertension has also been studied in crosses with SR by Abbott and Schachter (1994). Blood pressure is determined partly by angiotensin levels, but only in conditions in which renin cannot feed back normally (Gahnem et al, 1994). The dopamine-1 receptor in the proximal convoluted tubule fails to respond to D-1 agonists. This is not a consequence of hypertension because it occurs on a low salt diet and before hypertension develops (Ohbu et al, 1995). A defective dopamine-DA(1) receptor in this strain has also been noted by Hansell (1995).\par Develop a high frequency of cataracts, which may be associated with blood pressure response to sodium chloride  (Estape et al, 1995).\par TA\par Inbr. F26. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet.  {\i a, c, h.}  \par Origin: Outbred Wistar Imamichi. \par Characteristics\par Oligospermia due to seminiferous defect with litter size when sired by same strain of male reduced to 1/3 to 2/3rds. of normal. Defect is due to an autosomal recessive gene {\i ol}. Homozygous females have normal fertility (H Ikadi, personal communication, Jan. 1991).TE \par TE\par Inbr. F54. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet.  {\i a, c, h}. \par Origin: Outbred Wistar Imamichi rats. Males develop hydro-testes caused by sperm retention cysts in the efferent duct. This defect is caused by an autosomal dominant locus and two autosomal recessive loci. Females are normal (Ikadai et al 1987).\par TF \par Inbr. F25. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet.{\i  a, c, h.} \par Origin: From outbred Wistar Imamichi rats. Carries an autosomal recessive gene causing male pseudohermaphroditism due to defect of Leydig cells. Homozygous females are normal (Ikadai et al 1988).\par THA \par Inbr. F27. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i c}. \par Origin: Developed from Jcl-Wistar stock by inbreeding with selection for a high rate of electric shock avoidance by lever pressing. The strain has good learning performance not only in the Sidman avoidance task, but also in two other tasks when compared with the Jcl-Wistar stock, though the sensitivity  of the strain to electric shocks or heat stress was less (Shigeta et al 1990).\par THE \par Inbr. F32 (Tsukuba, 1984). \par Colour: Albino.\par Genet. {\i c}.\par Origin: Wistar albino rats selected for low ambulation in a bright runway out of a dark starting box (high emotionality) (see also TLE). \par Characteristics\par Ambulaton score under these conditions is very low, with the rats remaining essentially passive (Fujita 1984). Shorter latency, more digging activity and longer length burrows, with most rats escaping into burrows following a loud crashing sound than F344 or TLE (Kitaoka et al, 1994).\par TLE  \par Inbr. F32 (Tsukuba, 1984). \par Colour: Albino.\par Genet. {\i c.}\par Origin: Wistar albino rats selected for high ambulation in a bright runway out of a dark starting box (low emotionality) (see also THE). \par Characteristics\par Ambulaton score under these conditions is high, with the rats reacting actively or extroversively (Fujita 1984). Longer latency, less digging activity and shorter length burrows, with few rats escaping into burrows following a loud crashing sound than TLE (Kitaoka et al, 1994).\par TM\par Inbr.?+36 (Kyo) \par Colour: Pink-eyed dilute, \par Genet{\i . a, b, C, p. }\par Origin: Shionogi Pharmaceutical Company to Kyoto in 1976. Has thrombocyte storage pool deficiency (J Yamada, personal communication).\par TMB \par Inbr. F20+. \par Colour: Agouti, with white on ventral surface. \par Genet.  {\i A, h}{\i\up4 i}{\i .} \par Origin: PL Broadhurst from stock selected by Tryon for good maze learning performance. Although TMB and TS1 are derived from the same outbred stock, they were inbred independently and should be regarded as different inbred strains (Festing 1979b). \par Characteristics\par High voluntary alcohol acceptance concentration (1/4) (Russell and Stern 1973). Low open field activity (8/8) (Rick and Fulker 1972). Show an unprecidented affinity for ethanol with stable intakes between 12.7 and 13.7 g/kg per day and preference ratios exceeding 0.75 for ethanol concentrations  ranging between 15 and 29% (Amit and Smith, 1992)\par TMD \par Inbr. F20+. \par Colour: Black. \par Genet.{\i  a}. \par Origin: PL Broadhurst from stock selected by Tryon for poor maze learning performance. Although TMD and TS3 are derived from the same outbred stock, they were inbred independently and should be regarded as different inbred strains (Festing 1979b). \par Characteristics\par Low voluntary alcohol acceptance concentration (1/4) (Russell and Stern 1973, see also Amit and Smith, 1992). Low shock avoidance (7/8) (Rick and Fulker 1972). High brain GABA (3/8) (Rick et al 1971).\par TO \par Inbr.F87+ (Hok). \par Origin: A breeder in Tokyo, Japan, to Hokkaido University in 1952 (Festing and Staats 1973). Resistant to the induction of  EAU by interphotoreceptor retinol-binding protein  (contrast WKAH, W/M, LEJ, LEW and BUF) (Sasamoto et al, 1994).\par TOM \par Inbr. F88. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i c.}\par Origin: Toma Institute, Japan (Ikadai, personal communication, 1991)\par TS (formerly ET). \par Inbr. F?+18. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i c.}\par Origin: WKA strain obtained from Taisho Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. Develops ectopic scrota in about 70% of males. The defect is controled by multiple genes, and the females are normal  (Ikadai et al 1988b).\par TS1 \par Inbr. F51 (Har, 1988). \par Colour: Agouti, with white on ventral surface, \par Genet. {\i A, h}{\i\up4 i}{\i . }\par Origin: Harrington, from stock selected by Tryon in 1929 for good maze learning performance (Harrington 1981). Although TMB and TS1 are derived from the same outbred stock, they were inbred independently and should be regarded as different inbred strains (Festing 1979b). \par Characteristics\par Low open field activity (12/12) (Harrington 1972), low wheel activity in males (10/12) (Harrington 1971b). See also Harrington (1979a-i).\par TS3 \par Inbr. F55. \par Colour: Black{\i , }\par Genet. {\i a.} \par Origin: Harrington, from stock selected by Tryon for poor maze learning performance (Harrington 1981). Although TMD and TS3 are derived from the same outbred stock, they were inbred independently and should be regarded as different inbred strains (Festing 1979b). \par Characteristics\par High open field ambulation (4/12) and low defecation (9/12 males 10/12 females) (Harrington 1972). Short latency to emerge into a novel (3/12 males, 2/12 females) and familiar (3/12 males, 4/12 females) environment (Harrington 1971a). See also Harrington (1979a-i).\par TT (formerly designated AN). \par Inbr. F37. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i a, c ,h}. \par Origin: outbred Wistar Imamichi strain. Carries an autosomal recessive gene {\i as} causing an arrest of spermatogenesis at an early meiotic stage. Homozygous females have normal fertility (Ikadai, personal communication, 1991).\par TU \par Inbr. F22. \par Colour: Agouti hooded. \par Genet. {\i A, B, C, h.} \par Origin: From a cross of a wild male and Wistar Imamichi outbred rats. Small litter size with malformations of kidneys and vas deferens in about 20% of offspring (H Ikadai, personal communication, 1991)\par TW \par Inbr. F49. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i a, c, h.} \par Origin: Wistar Imamichi outbred stock. Testicular hypoplasia (unilateral or bilateral) with aplasia of the epididymus and ductus deferens in about 50% of males. Female genital organs are normal (Ikadai et al 1985, Ajisawa et al 1985).\par TX \par Inbr. F23. \par Colour: Black. \par Genet. {\i a, C, H}. \par Origin: From a cross between a wild male and Wistar Imamichi females (H Ikadai, personal communication, 1991)\par U  \par Inbr. F?+3. \par Colour: Hooded (?), \par Genet{\i . h}. \par Origin: Zootechnical Institute, Utrecht to the Netherlands Cancer Institute in 1958. To Erasmus University, Rotterdam, then to ITRI-TNO, Rijswijk, the Netherlands in 1960 (van Hooft 1990).\par UChA \par Inbr.F63. \par Colour: Albino, \par Genet. {\i c}. \par Origin: Wistar rats selected for low voluntary 10% ethanol consumption, with brother x sister mating. \par Characteristics\par Mean daily voluntary intake of 10% ethanol solution 0.64 ml in males and 0.61 ml in females (cf UChB). Voluntary consumption of 10% ethanol declines over a period of time. UChA and UChB do not differ in length of alcohol narcosis induced by 60 mmol/kg ethanol given intraperitoneally (Mardones and Segovia-Riquelme 1983). Effects of diet and disulfiram have been studied by Quintanilla et al (1993). Strains UCHA and UCHB differ in acetaldehyde metabolism (Tampier et al, 1994). Fro other studies on UCHA and UCHB see Tampier et al (1995).\par UChB \par Inbr.F54. \par Colour: Albino, \par Genet. {\i c}. \par Origin: Wistar rats selected for high voluntary 10% ethanol consumption, with brother x sister mating. \par Characteristics\par Mean daily voluntary intake of 10% ethanol solution 4.57 ml in males and 5.78 ml in females (cf UChA). Voluntary consumption of 10% ethanol increases over a period of time. UChA and UChB do not differ in length of alcohol narcosis induced by 60 mmol/kg ethanol given intraperitoneally (Mardones and Segovia-Riquelme 1983).\par W/Hok \par Inbr. F120. (Hok). \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet.{\i  A, B, c, h}. \par Origin: Wistar Institute to University of Tokyo, Japan in 1938. To Hokkaido in 1944. Inbred by Makino. Congenital cleft palate 0.5% (Shoji 1977).\par W/Nhg \par Inbr. ? \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i c.}\par Origin: Wistar rats from the Zentralinstitut fur Versuchstier, Hannover in 1964, inbred since 1973 in Neuherberg, Germany. \par Characteristics\par High incidence (97% in feales, 36% in males) of spontaneous thymomas starting from about one year of age. They sometimes caused dyspnea, and were occasionally the cause of death, but were not assocaited with any myopathies or autoimmune disease (Murray et al 1985).\par WA \par Inbr. F66+. \par Colour: Albino, \par Genet. {\i a, c, h.} \par Origin: St Thomas's Hospital, from outbred Wistar stock, to Laboratory Animals Centre in 1964 at F43 (Festing and Blackmore 1971). To Ola in 1983. \par Characteristics\par Mean life-span of animals maintained in Specific Pathogen Free conditions 749_40 days in females and 645_30 days in males. High incidence of polycystic nephrosis (Festing and Blackmore 1971). Haematological characters described by Lovell et al (1981); low RBC (2/7), Hb (2/7), PCV (2/7), MCHC (1/7), eosinophils (1/7), high lymphocytes (7/7).\par WAB \par Inbr.F81. \par Colour: Albino{\i , }\par Genet. {\i c.} \par Origin: Boots Ltd., from same stock as WAG, but separated in 1926, prior to inbreeding. Benign thymoma in 23% of individuals over 2 years, with 50% incidence in castrated males and 57% in spayed females (Hinsull and Bellamy 1977).\par WAG \par Inbr. 138. \par Colour: Albino,{\i  }\par Genet. {\i a, c, h or H,} depending on subline; most commonly {\i a, c, h.} \par Origin: AL Bacharach, Glaxo Ltd 1924 from Wistar stock. Note that the presence of different coat color alleles in some sublines implies that this strain may have become genetically contaminated at some time in the past. It is therefore important that the subline should be stated carefully in published work. WAG/Cpb clearly differs from other sublines at many loci (Festing and Bender 1984).\par Characteristics\par Behaviour\par Short latency to emerge from cage into familiar (4/12 males, 3/12 feamles) and novel environments (2/12 males, 3/12 females) (Harrington 1971a). High open-field ambulation (2/12) (Harrington 1972). High wheel activity (2/12) (Harrington 1971b). Low open-field defecation (7/8) but high ambulation and shock-avoidance learning (1/8) (Rick and Fulker 1972). \par Biochemistry and physiology\par Low brain GABA (Rick et al 1971). Rij substrain develops spontaneously occurring spike-wave paroxysms on the electroencephalogram, accompanied by clinical phenomena resembling human 'petit mal' or absence epilepsy. A second type of novel wave was not associated with any behavioural correlates and was seen exclusively during wakefulness (van Luijtelaar and Coenen 1986, Coenen and  van Luijtelaar 1987, Coenen et al 1992, van Luijtelaar and Coenen 1989). The condition appears to be due to more than one dominantly-acting genes (Peeters et al 1990, 1992), and follows definite 24 hour rhythms (Van Luijrelaar and Coenen, 1988), being particularly marked during light slow wave sleep and passive wakefulness (Drinkenburg et al 1991). The response to anti-epileptic drugs corresponds to that of human absence epilepsy (Peeters et al 1988). In contrast, the ACI strain was almost free of spike-wave discharges, while BN/Bi, B and G were intermediate (Inoue et al 1990). Some solvents for antiepileptic drugs have proepileptic potencies in this strain (Peeters et al, 1992). Blockage ofAMPA andkainate receptors led to an antiepileptic effect without inducing behavioural alterations (Peeters et al, 1994). A low dose of fentanyl (0.01mg/kg) with fluanisone (0.5 mg/kg) caused a large increase in epileptic activity, which was larger than with higher doses (Inoue et al, 1994).\par Lifespan and spontaneous disease\par Endocardial disease 4% at an average age of 31 months (Boorman et al 1973). Tumours: medullary thyroid carcinoma 27%, chromophobe adenoma of the pituitary 68%, adrenal cortical adenoma 29%, pheochromocytoma 2%, islet cell adenoma 1%. Mean life-span more than 31 months in females and 22 months in males (Boorman et al 1972). Mean life-span 31 months in females with pituitary tumours found in 69% of females. Other common tumours include medullary thyroid carcinoma 40%, adrenal cortical adenoma 29%, fibroadenoma of breast 21% with 19 other types of tumour found in 290 animals (Boorman and Hollander 1973). 90% survival to 13 months, 50% at 24 months and 10% at 31 months in virgin females, 90% at 23 months, 50% at 29 months and 10% at 38 months in breeding females (Burek 1978). Pancreatic atrophy 16% in females, 11% in males; hydronephrosis 16% in males; cystic ovaries 36% in males (Burek 1978). Bilateral retinal degeneration with early onset and slowly progressive course which resembles human retinitis pigmentosa (Lai et al 1980). Further details of aging given by Hollander (1976). \par Immunology\par Resistant to experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (Hughes and Stedronska 1973). Some sublines may carry recessive gene {\i dx} preventing anaphylactoid reaction to dextran (Harris et al 1963). Susceptible to the induction of autoimmune thyroiditis (Rose 1975). Higher incidence of polyspermia than in PVG (Braden 1958). Susceible to iron deficiency. Low secondary antibody esponse to the polypeptide (T,G)-Pro-L (17/20) (G\'9fnther et al 1976). Poor (4/5) antibody response to a synthetic 20 amino acid peptide derived from the alpha helical region of the RT1-D-u beta chain (Murphy et al, 1994).\par Miscellaneous\par High biliary excretion of copper after intravenous injection of CuSO{\dn4 4} (1/4) (Nederbragt and Lagerwerf 1986). Haematological parameters described by Lovell et al (1981). Long gestation period (1/8) Peters (1986).\par WBB/1 \par Inbr. F27 (NIH 1989). \par Origin: No further information\par WBB/2 \par Inbr. F30 (NIH 1989).  \par Origin:No further information.\par WBN \par Inbr. F?+13 (1985). \par Colour: Albino \par Genet.{\i  c}. \par Origin: Wistar rats from the Institute of Experimental Gerontology, Basel brother x sister mated in the Institute of Pathology, University of Bonn since 1961. To the Instuitute of Medical Science, University of Tokyo in 1976, then to Shizuoka Laboratory Animals Center where they were hysterectomy-derived. \par Characteristics\par Aged rats develop a diabetic syndrome characterised by impared glucose tolerance as early as 21 weeks of age, followed later by glycosurea, hyperlipidaemia and gradual emaciation. There is multifiocal fibrosis and a decrease in the number of islets and atrophy of the exocrine tissue of the pancreas in diabetic animals. The syndrome is characterised as insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus type II, though the histological lesions of the pancreas were somewhat different from previous reports of both type I and type II diabetes mellitus in man and abnimals (Tsuchitani et al 1985, Nakima et al 1985). The strain also develops demyelinating, predominantly motor neuropathy, later accompanied by axonal changes which are unique to this strain. The mechanism of the early demyelination is not known (Yagihashi et al 1993).\par WC/Ztm   Reserved symbol\par WCF \par Inbr. F204+51 (Idr 1991).  \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i A,B,c,h}. \par Origin: R Shoji, 1972 from a male rat of strain WKAH/Idr with clubfoot of the right hind foot. \par Characteristics\par Incidence of clubfoot varies, and did not seem to be associated with type of mating. Normal x normal produced 28%, normal x clubfoot produced  25% and clbfoot x clubfoot produced 34% clubfoot offspring, respectively. No causative gene has been isolated. The condition can be detected at the terminal stages of gestation, with abnormalities of the peroneal nerve and the anterior and lateral crural muscles in adult rats (Shoji et al 1988)\par WDF \par Inbr. N11F11 (1986). \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet.{\i  c.} \par Origin: Ikeda et al (1981) by backcrossing the fatty gene ({\i fa}) to F8 and later generations of outbred Wistar Kyoto rats being inbred by brother x sister mating. The aim was to develop a model of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. \par Characteristics\par The animals exhibit hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinemia, peripheral and hepatic insulin resistance linked to abnormalities in enzyme levels and activities, diet and sex-dependent diabetes and possible diabetes-linked peripheral neuropathy (Kava et al 1990).\par WEC \par Inbr.F60. \par Colour: Light beige/yellow (e?). \par Genet. ?\par Origin: Centraal Proefdierenbedrig TNO from an outcross involving strains B, WAG and others, followed by inbreeding (Festing 1979b). Formarly known as WE/Cpb. Hyporesponder to dietary cholesterol (van Zutphen, unpublished).\par WEK  \par Inbr.F60. \par Colour: Brown. \par Genet.{\i  a, b}. \par Origin: Centraal Proefdierenbedrig TNO 1958 to Utrecht in 1973. Formerly known as WEchoc. Hyporesponder to dietary cholesterol (van Zutphen, unpublished).\par WELS \par Inbr.F20 (1984). \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i c.}\par Origin: Outbred wistar rats in 1976. Some biological details mainly on haematology and blood biochemistry given by Henize et al (1984)\par WF \par Inbr.F?+58 (Pit). \par Colour: Albino, \par Genet. {\i c}. \par Origin: J Furth 1945 from a commercial Wistar stock in an attempt to develop a high leukaemia rat strain. Strain carries a distinctive heteropycnotic Y chromosome which may be used as a cellular marker (Zieverink and Moloney 1965). A substrain carrying the "fuzzy" mutation, which arose spontaneously in WF has been used in research on dermal toxicity, and is described in more detail by Marit et al, (1995).\par Characteristics\par Lifespan and spontaneous disease\par Carcinoma of the colon found in 8/21 males and 8/29 females (Miyamoto and Takizawa 1975). In females tumours include 27% pituitary, 21% mammary, 3% adrenal, 9% leukaemia (generalised), 7% lymphoma (malignant), 3% lipomas and 4% unclassified (Kim et al 1960). Mean life span 21 months in females and 23 months in males. Leukaemia 15-22% characterised by an unusual type of mononuclear cell containing reddish granules.  Incidence of spontaneous pituitary tumours 38% in rats older than 10 months of age, increasing to a maximum of 69% at 28-32 months of age. Higher incidence in females (71%) than in males (35%) (Trouillas et al 1982).  WF rats develop retinal dystrophy from about 3-months of age which resembles that found in RCS rats, but with a later onset. By about 7 months all rats are affected (Lin and Essner 1988). Have an hereditary macrothromobcytopenia, with about 1/3rd. the normal number of platelets, which are larger than normal. The condition appears to be inherited as a recessive Mendelian character (Jackson et al 1986).\par Drugs and Chemicals\par Administration of 3-methylcholanthrene to young increased, but X-rays decreased leukaemia (Moloney et al 1969). Highly susceptibly to the induction of mammary cancer following exposure to dust of 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)-anthracene powder applied directly to exposed mammary tissue, in contrast with COP (Takahashi et al, 1992). Resistant (7/7) to the induction of squamous cell carcinomas of the tongue by 4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide (contrast DA) (Kitano et al, 1992). Sensitive to the convulsive effects of kainic acid (1/4) (Golden et al, 1995)\par Physiology and Biochemistry\par Low serum growth hormone (5/5) (Esber et al 1974). Low blood pressure (20/23), reaching 123_1.3 (SEM) mmHg at 10 weeks of age (Tanase et al 1982).  Resistant to adrenal regeneration hypertension (Molteni et al 1975).  \par Immunology\par Low antibody response to streptococcal group A carbohydrate; not linked to the MHC (Stankus and Leslie 1976).  Resistant to the development of experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (1/9) (Biesecker and Koffler 1988). Grafts of aorta from DA develop chronic arteriosclerotic changes in the vascular wall, after a short spontaneously reversible acute rejection period, which resemble those observed in human allografts during chronic rejection (Mennander et al, 1992)\par WIN \par Inbr. F 20 (1986). \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i c.}\par Origin: WI outbred rats inbred since 1980 as WIN (Wistar-Imamichi-Natori). Has a unique RT1.A haplotype (RT1.A{\up4 s}B{\up4 l}D{\up4 l}) (Natori et al 1986).\par WIST/Nhg  \par Inbr. F56 (Nhg). \par Colour: Albino.\par Genetic. {\i c.}\par Origin: From outbred Wistar stock in 1967. Independently derived from WIST/Zihk.\par WIST/Zihk \par Inbr. F20. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i c.}\par Origin: From Wistar outbred stock in 1978. Independently derived from WIST/Nhg.\par WKA \par Inbr. F237 (Pit). \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i A, B, c, h.} \par Origin: King 1909 from Wistar Institute stock to Aptekman in 1946 at F135, to Hokkaido University in 1953 at F148. To Pit at F205 (Kunz et al 1987). Probably genetically identical to PA. Slow elimination of {\i Trichinella spiralis} worms (12/12) (Bell, 1992)\par WKAH \par Inbr. F239 (Hok). \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i A, B, c, h.} \par Origin: King 1909 from Wistar Institute stock to Aptekman in 1946 at F135, to Hokkaido University in 1953 at F148. Formerly called WKA, Probably gentically identical to PA. \par Characteristics\par Congenital clubfoot and polydactyly 2% (Shoji 1977, see also WCF).   Infection with HTLV-1 results in a chronic progressive myeloneuropathy by 19-23 months of age. Strains F344, ACI and LEW were resistant (Seto et al 1995). Susceptible to the induction of  EAU by interphotoreceptor retinol-binding protein  (cf LEW, W/M, LEJ and BUF, but in contrast with TO) (Sasamoto et al, 1994).\par Liver gangliosides are of the b-type (cf cf SHRSP) (Kasai et al 1993)\par WKAM  \par Inbr. F230 (Ms 1990). \par Origin: King 1909 to Aptekman 1946 at F135 to Hok in 1953 at F148 to Ms in 1953 (precise number not known), to Jic in 1980 at F208, back to Ms in 1980 at F211, to Slc in 1986 at F228, back to Ms in 1987 at F230 (Greenhouse et al 1990). Formerly called WKA.\par WKHA \par Inbr. F21 (1991). \par Colour: Albino,{\i  }\par Genet{\i . c.} \par Origin: From a cross between SHR and WKY with selection for high spontaneous activity and low systolic blood pressure. \par Characteristics\par Studies of this strain suggest that the exaggerated sympathetic-adrenal medullary response to acute stress found in SHR is associated with hyperactivity found also in WKHA rather than hypertension (Hendley et al 1988, Knardahl and Hendley 1990, Hendley and Fan, 1992). Both SHR and WKHA show increased reactivity to stimuli, with WKHA reacting particularly to novel aversive stimuli (Sagvolden et al, 1992). See also  Fan et al, (1995).\par WKHT  (reserved symbol)\par Inbr. F17 (1991). \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i c.}\par Origin: From a cross between SHR and WKY, with selection for high blood pressureand low spontaneous activity (Hendley et al 1988, Knardahl and Hendley 1990, Hendley and Fan, 1992). \par Characteristics\par Have been used as a model for studying the effects of drugs on aortic aneurysms. Propranolol significantly reduces the size of abdominal aortic aneurysms independently of the dose and by a mechanism which may be unrelated to blood pressure (Slaiby et al, 1994)\par WKS \par Inbr. F51. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet. {\i c.}\par Origin: National Institute of Genetics, Mishima, Japan.\par WKY/N \par Inbr. F46 (N). \par Colour: Albino,{\i  }\par Genet. {\i a, B, c, h, P, R}\par Origin: National Institutes of Health in 1971 from outbred Wistar stock from Kyoto School of Medicine. Inbred as a normotensive control strain for SHR (Hanesn et al 1973), though there is some controversy about the validity of such use (see Rapp 1987). Johnson et al (1992) found large genetic differences using restriction fragment length polymorphisms between WKY and SHR, comparable to the maximum divergence possible between unrelated humans. Also, breeding stock of ths strain was distributed before F20, possibly resulting in the emergence of a number of strains or substrains (Kurtz and Morris 1987, Kurtz et al 1989). It is therefore essential that subline codes are always used in designating this strain. \par Characteristics: \par Some demonstrate heritable biventricular cardiac hypertrophy, providing a model of volume-load hypertrophy (Pfeiffer et al 1979 using breeding stock obtained from the NIH in 1973 at F5). Similarly, Kuribayashi et al (1988) found a high incidence of a range of cardiac abnormalities in WKY/NCrj substrain rats. Belledonne et al (1979) showed that WKY/Tac rats are sensitive to sodium chloride-induced hypertension and have abnormal acid and ammonium excretion. Sensitive to the induction of ulcers by stress (1/4) (Pare 1989). Hyperresponsive to a novel environment as indicated by delay in entering the open field, increased grooming, reduced rearing, and reduced locomotion. Plasma ACTH levels were found to be 67% higher than in BN rats, with an inverse correlation with longevity (Tizabi et al, 1992, Gilad et al, 1993). Relatively sensitive to the induction of experimental autoimmune glomerulonephritis (1/4, cf F344)(Sado et al 1986). Like the COP strain, resistant to the development of induced and spontaneous mammary carcinomas due to one homozygous copy of a mammary tumour suppressor gene (Haag et al 1992). Resistant to the induction of glandular stomach adenocarcinomas following treatment with catechol (contrast LEW, Wistar and Sprague-Dawley) (Tanaka et al, 1995)\par Compared with SHR/N, ACI and F344/N, has low levels of cytochrome Cyp2C11  but relatively high levels of S-warfarin 4-and 8-hydroxylase activities (Kitareewan and Walz, 1994).  Epitope specificities of collagen-induced arthritis studied by Cremer et al (1992). Resistant to the development of mammary carcinomas (both spontaneous and induced) due to a suppressor gene which appears to be similar or identical to that carried by strain COP. However, WKY also carries one or more susceptibility genes (Haag et al 1992).\par Low 10-week body weight in males (4/23) (Tanase et al 1982). Bellhorn et al (1987) found that rats of the substrain maintained by Charles River Inc. develop an outer retinal degeneration by middle age.     \par A congenic strain carrying the fatty gene ({\i fa}) (N8-N10) has been described by Peterson et al (1990a). It appears in many ways to be similar to strain WDF/Ta-{\i fa}, with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.\par Slow acetylator due to polymorphism of N-acetyltransferase (like NSD but contrast PETH) (Juberg et al, 1991)\par WKYO \par Inbr. F29 (Kyo). \par Colour: Albino, \par Genet. {\i c}. \par Origin: Inbred in 1980 from outbred Wistar Kyoto rats. Highly sensitive to the development of experimental glomerulonephritis following injection of nephritogenic antigen from bovine renal basement membrane (1/10) (Naito et al, 1991)\par WM \par Inbr. F91 (Ms). \par Colour: Albino, \par Genet. {\i c}. \par Origin: Wistar Institute to Tokyo University in 1938. To Hokkaido in 1944. To National Institute of Genetics, Misima in 1951.\par WMS  \par Inbr. F20 (Sim 1990).  \par Colour: Albino,{\i  }\par Genet. {\i c}. \par Origin: Munich, Germany from Wistar stock selectively bred for superficial glomeruli. To Sim via Veterans Administration Medical Center, San Francisco, California in 1979 at which time inbreeding was begun. Good reproductive performance. Has superficial glomeruli and prominant elongated renal papilla. See also MW and MWF\par WN \par Inbr. F105 (N). \par Colour: Albino, \par Genet. {\i c. }\par Origin: Heston in 1942 from Wistar stock of Nettleship, to National Institutes of Health in 1950 at F15. \par Characteristics\par Anterior pituitary tumours nearly 100% in females over 18 months of age, pheochromocytomas or preneoplastic nodules in adrenal medulla about 40% in males, granulocytic leukaemai 14% in animals over 18 months of age. Rarely show hyperplastic cortical nodules or adrenal cortical adenomas. High incidence of severe chronic nephritis. (Snell 1967). High 10-week body weight in males (19/23) (Tanase et al 1982). High relative heart weight in 10-week old males (19/23) (Tanase et al 1982).\par\par WOKA and WOKW\par Inbr. (1998) F35+ \par Colour: Albino\par Genet. {\i c} \par Origin:  Outbred Wistar BB rats from Biobreeding Laboratories, Ottawa, Canada in 1981 to Dr. I. Kloting,  Dept. of Laboratory Animal Science, Inst. of Pathology, University of Greifswald, D-17495, Karlsburg, Germany. WOKA (originally designated WOK.1A) was developed by brother x sister mating from rats homozygous for RT1{\up4 a}, and WOKW (originally designated WOK.1W) from rats homozygous for RT1{\up4 U }, a haplotype which pre-disposes to type I diabetes.\par Characteristics\par No diabetes is observed in either strain. However, WOKW is  hypertriglycemic, hyperinsulinemic and hypertensive with impaired glucose tolerance which increases with age, but it is normoglycemic and is not obese. It has a poor reproductive performance. It may be a good animal model of human insulin resistance (Kovacs et al, 1997).   Both strains have been characterised at a number of genetic marker loci, and differed from each other at 6/30 loci (Bender et al, 1994). They have also been compared with three other BB substrains using  36 markers, and differ substantially both from the other strains and from each other (Kloting et al, 1995). \par\par WR \par Inbr. F30+. \par Origin: Sykora, Rosice (Stark et al 1968b). No further infromation.\par WST \par Inbr. F39 (Imp). \par Colour: Albino, \par Genet. {\i c}. \par Origin: Strain WAG, Glaxo Research, Uxbridge, UK to Institute of Rheumatology, Warsaw in 1964. To Institute of Oncology, Warsaw 1964. To Institute of Occupational Medicine (Imp), Warsaw in 1965 (Pietrowicz 1986).\par Y59 \par Inbr. F?. \par Origin: Strain developed in Zagreb, Croatia.\par YA  \par Inbr. F22 (NIH 1989). \par Origin: No further information.\par YO \par Inbr. F71 (Pit). \par Origin: Fredrich Cancer Research Facility to Pit at F35. Genetic charactersitics given by Kunz et al (1987). Rapid elimination of Trichinella spiralis worms (2/12) (Bell, 1992)\par Z61 \par Inbr. F70+. \par Colour: Albino \par Genet. {\i a, c, h}. \par Origin: Curtis 1920 at Columbia University Institute for Cancer Research. Susceptible to Cysticercus. Susceptible to oestrogen and 2-acetylaminofluorine-induced tumours.\par ZDF (Reserved symbol)\par Inbr. F10.  \par Origin: "Zucker" fatty rats of undefined outbred background, inbred with selection for non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus by mating diabetic homozygous fatty males to heterozygous sisters (Peterson et al 1990b).\par Characteristics\par Develops overt diabetes associated with decreased plasma insulin levels. Depending on age can be sub-divided into obese, mildly diabetic (blood glucose <11 mM) and obese severely diabetic (blood glucose >20 mM) groups (Slieker et al, 1992). Develop quantifiable retinal vascular changes (Danis and Yang, 1993)\par ZI \par Inbr. F26. \par Colour: Albino. \par Genet.{\i  c, zi.} \par Origin: A breeder in W Germany to Hannover in 1980, to Kyoto in 1983. Carries rcessive autosomal gene "zitter" which causes spongiform encephalopathy of the central nervous system with tremors at 15 days of age as well as curley whiskers  and hair (Yamada et al 1989).\par\par{\b References}\par Abbott R. E. and Schachter D. (1994) Inheritance of salt-dependent hypertension in the inbred Dahl rat. {\i Hypertension} {\b 24}, 506-511.\par\par Abel E. L., Altman H. J., and Commissaris R. L. (1992) Maudsley Reactive and Nonreactive rats in the forced swim test - comparison in fresh-water and soiled water. {\i Physiol. Behav.} {\b 52}, 1117-1119.\par\par Adams M., Baverstock P. R., Watts C. H. S., and Guttman G. A. (1984) Enzyme markers in inbred rat strains: genetics of new markers and strain profiles. {\i Biochem. Genet.} {\b 22}, 611.\par\par Adams N. and Blizard D. A. (1991) Genetic and maternal influences in rat models of spontaneous and salt-induced hypertension. {\i Developmental Psychobiology} {\b 24}, 507-519.\par\par Ajisawa C., Ikadai H., and Imamichi T. (1985) Morphological study on the hypoplastic testis with aplasia of the epididymis, ductus deferens, and gland of the ductus deferens in the TW inbred rat. {\i Exp. Animals (Japan)} {\b 34}, 189-195.\par\par Alam M., Midtvedt T., and Uribe A. (1994) Differential cell-kinetics in the ileum and colon of germ-free rats. {\i Scandinavian Journal of Gastroenterology} {\b 29}, 445-451.\par\par Al-Dabbagh S. G., Idle J. R., and Smith R. L. (1981) Animal modelling of human polymorphic drug oxidation- the metabolism of debrisoquine and phenacetin in rat inbred strains. {\i J. Pharm. Pharmacol.} {\b 33}, 161-164.\par\par Allen E. M. (1992) The effect of iodine on lipid-peroxidation and ultrastructure in the thyroids of BB/Wor rats. {\i Journal of Endocrinological Investigation} {\b 15}, 519-523.\par\par Ambrosio E., Goldberg S. R., and Elmer G. I. (1995a) Behavior genetic investigation of the relationship between spontaneous locomotor-activity and the acquisition of morphine self-administration behavior. {\i Behavioural Pharmacology} {\b 6}, 229-237.\par\par Ambrosio E., Goldberg S. R., and Elmer G. I. (1995b) Behavior genetic investigation of the relationship between spontaneous locomotor-activity and the acquisition of morphine self- administration behavior. {\i Behavioural Pharmacology} {\b 6}, 229-237.\par\par Amit Z. and Smith B. R. (1992) Differential ethanol intake in Tryon Maze-Bright and Tryon Maze-Dull rats - implications for the validity of the animal-model of selectively bred rats for high ethanol-consumption. {\i Psychopharmacology} {\b 108}, 136-140.\par\par Andersen A. E. (1982) Phenylketonuria, supplement update to model no 47, in {\i Handbook of animal models of human disease, fascicle 11} (Capen C. C., Hackel D. B., Jones T. C., and Migaki G., eds) Registry of Comparaitve pathology, Armed Forces Institute of Pathology, Washington, DC.\par\par Andersen A. and Guroff G. (1974) Phenylketonuria. {\i Comp. Pathol. Bull.} {\b 6}, 1-2.\par\par Anderson A. E. (1982) Phenylketonuria, supplemental update to model not 47, in {\i Handbook: Animal Models of Human Disease, Fascicle 11 ed.} (Capen C. C., Hackel D. B., Jones T. C., and Migaki G., eds) Registry of Comparitive Pathology, Armed Forces Institute of Pathology, Washington, DC.\par\par Andolu J., Takahashi M., Imai S., Ishihara R., Kitamura T., Iijima T., Takano S., Nishiyama K., Suzuki K., and Maekawa A. (1994) High-yield induction of uterine endometrial adenocarcinomas in DONRYU rats by a single intrauterine administration of n-ethyl-n'-nitro-n- nitrosoguanidine via the vagina. {\i Jpn. J. Cancer Res.} {\b 85}, 789-793.\par\par Armerding D., Katz D. H., and Benacerraf B. (1974a) Immune response genes in inbred rats. I. Analysis of responder status to synthetic polypeptides and low doses of bovine serum albumin. {\i Immunogenet.} {\b 1}, 329-339.\par\par Armerding D., Katz D. H., and Benacerraf B. (1974b) Immune response genes in inbred rats. II. Segregation studies of the GT and GA genes and their linkage to the major histocompatibility complex. {\i Immunogenet.} {\b 1}, 340-351.\par\par Armstrong J. M., Blackwell G. J., Flower R. J., McGiff J. C., Mullane K. M., and Vane J. R. (1976) Genetic hypertension in rats is accompanied by a defect in renal prostaglandin catabolism. {\i Nature} {\b 260}, 582-586.\par\par Atkinson E. G., Edelsten C., Kasp E., and Dumonde D. C. (1992) Experimental autoimmune uveoretinitis in the RCS rat - the influence of photoreceptor degeneration on disease expression. {\i Brit. J. Ophthalmol.} {\b 76}, 553-559.\par\par Aubry J. M., Bartanusz V., Driscoll P., Schulz P., Steimer T., and Kiss J. Z. (1995) Corticotropin-releasing factor and vasopressin messenger-RNA levels in Roman High-Avoidance and Low-Avoidance rats - response to open- field exposure. {\i Neuroendocrinology} {\b 61}, 89-97.\par\par Aulakh C. S., Hill J. L., and Murphy D. L. (1993) Attenuation of hypercortisolemia in Fawn-Hooded rats by antidepressant drugs. {\i Eur. J. Pharmacol.} {\b 240}, 85-88.\par\par Aulakh C. S., Hill J. L., and Murphy D. L. (1994a) Lithium treatment restores clonidines effect in an animal-model of depression. {\i Pharmacol. Biochem. Behav.} {\b 47}, 985-987.\par\par Aulakh C. S., Tolliver T., Wozniak K. M., Hill J. L., and Murphy D. L. (1994b) Functional and biochemical-evidence for altered serotonergic function in the Fawn-Hooded rat strain. {\i Pharmacol. Biochem. Behav.} {\b 49}, 615-620.\par\par Ayachi S (1979) Increased dietary calcium lowers blood pressure in the spontaneously hypertensive rat. {\i Metabolism} {\b 28}, 1234-1238.\par\par Azuma Y., Ito N., Shinohara M., and Mori M. (1978) Experimental gingivitis in ODU plaque-susceptible rats. II. Biochemical nature of the rat plaque. {\i J. Periodontol.} {\b 49}, 60-63.\par\par Azuma Y., Shinohara M., Ito N., and Mori M. (1979) Experimental gingivitis in ODU plaque-susceptible rats. III. Toxic activity of the rat dental plaque. {\i J. Periodontol.} {\b 50}, 416-418.\par\par Badalamenti J., Shea M., Cybulsky A. V., Quigg R. J., and Salant D. J. (1987) Heymann nephritis (HN) antigen in Lewis (LEW) and Brown Norway (BN) rats. {\i Fed. Proc.} {\b 46}, 1327.\par\par Badishtov B. A., Overstreet D. H., Kashevskaya O. P., Viglinskaya I. V., Kampovpolevoy A. B., Seredenin S. B., and Halikas J. A. (1995) To drink or not to drink - open-field behavior in alcohol-preferring and alcohol-nonpreferring rat strains. {\i Physiol. Behav.} {\b 57}, 585-589.\par\par Bailey D. W. (1971) Recombinant inbred strains, an aid to finding identity, linkage, and function of histocompatibility and other genes. {\i Transplant.} {\b 11}, 325-327.\par\par Bakhle Y. S. and Bell C. (1994) Increased numbers of substance P-containing sensory neurons in a rat strain with a genetic neurotrophic defect. {\i Neuropeptides} {\b 27}, 169-174.\par\par Barber B. R., Ferrari P., and Bianchi G. (1994) The Milan hypertensive strain: a description of the model, in {\i Handbook of Hypertension Vol. 16 Experimental and Genetic Models of Hypertension} (Ganten D. and de Jong W., eds), pp. 316-345. Elsevier, Amsterdam, New York, Oxford.\par\par Barthold S. W., Moody K. D., Terwilliger G. A., Jacoby R. O., and Steere A. C. (1988) An animal model for Lyme arthritis. {\i Ann. NY Acad. Sci.} {\b 539}, 264-273.\par\par Bataillard A., Sacquet J., Julien C., Vincent M., Gomezsanchez C., Touraine J. L., and Sassard J. (1993) Do thymic-neuroendocrine interactions play a role in the antihypertensive effect of neonatal thymectomy in Lyon Hypertensive Rats. {\i AJH} {\b 6}, 407-412.\par\par Baum A., Pohlmeyer G., Rapp K. G., and Deerberg F. (1995) Lewis rats of the inbred strain LEW/Han - life expectancy, spectrum and incidence of spontaneous neoplasms. {\i Experimental and Toxicologic Pathology} {\b 47}, 11-18.\par\par Bazin H. (1974) Tumeurs secretant des immunoglobulines chez le rat LOU/Wsl. Etude portant sur 200 immunocytomes. {\i Ann. Immunol. (Paris)} {\b 125C}, 277-279.\par\par Bazin H. (1977) Inbred strains. {\i Rat News Lett.} {\b 1}, 27.\par\par Bazin H. and Platteau B. (1976) Production of circulating reaginic (IgE) antibodies by oral administration of ovalbumin to rats. {\i Immunol.} {\b 30}, 679-683.\par\par Bazin H., Deckers C., Beckers A., and Heremans J. F. (1972) Transplantable immunoglobulin-secreting tumours in rats. I. General features of LOU/Wsl strain rat immunocytomas and their monoclonal proteins. {\i Int. J. Cancer} {\b 10}, 568-580.\par\par Bazin H., Beckers A., Deckers C., and Moriame M. (1973) Transplantable immunoglobulin-secreting tumors in rats. V. Monoclonal immunoglobulins secreted by 250 ileocecal immunocytomas in LOU/Wsl rats. {\i J. Natl. Cancer Inst.} {\b 51}, 1359-1361.\par\par Bazin H., Beckers A., and Querinjean P. (1974a) Three classes and four (sub)classes of rat immunoglobulins: IgM. IgA, IgE and IgG1, IgG2a, IgG2b, IgG2c. {\i Eur. J. Immunol.} {\b 4}, 44-48.\par\par Bazin H., Querinjean P., Beckers A., Heremans J. F., and Dessy F. (1974b) Transplantable immunoglobulin-secreting tumours in Rats. IV. Sixty-three IgE-secreting immunocytoma tumours. {\i Immunol.} {\b 26}, 713-723.\par\par Beckers A. and Bazin H. (1978) Incidence of spontaneous ileocecal immunocytomas in hybrids of LOU/C rats and rat strains with low spontaneous tumor incidence: Brief communication. {\i J. Natl. Cancer Inst.} {\b 60}, 1505-1508.\par\par Beder K., Nagel M., Muller C. R., and Gunther E. (1979) Electrophoretic protein variants in inbred strains of {\i Rattus norvegicus}: strain distribution, description of a new esterase polymorphism and linkage studies. {\i Transplant. Proc.} {\b 11}, 1653-1656.\par\par Bell R. G. (1992) Variation in responsiveness to {\i Trichinella-spiralis infection in inbred rat strains}. {\i Parasitology} {\b 105}, 125-130.\par\par Belledonne M., Preuss J. M., and Preuss H. G. (1979) Acid excretion in young and adult Wistar Kyoto and spontaneously hypertensive rats. {\i Experientia} {\b 35}, 1594-1595.\par\par Bellhorn R. W., Rheinhardt J. M., Burns M. S., and Matthes M. T. (1987) {\i Retinal degeneration in the WKY rat. Degenerative Retinal Disorders: Clin. and Laboratory Invests. 317-331}. Liss, Inc, Alan R.\par\par Bender K., Ceve H., and Gunther E. (1981) A previously described serum protein polymorphism in the rat identified as Gc ('vitamin D-binding protein'). {\i Anim. Blood Gps. Biochem. Genet.} {\b 12}, 31-36.\par\par Bender K., Adams M., Baverstock P. R., et al. (1984a) Biochemical markers in inbred strains of the rat {\i Rattus norvegicus}. {\i Immunogenet.} {\b 19}, 257-266.\par\par Bender K., Adams M., Baverstock P. R., den Bieman M., Bissbort S., Brdicka R., Butcher G. W., Cramer D. V., von Deimling O., Festing M. F. W., Gunther E., Guttmanm R. D., Hedrich H. J., Kendall P. B., Kluge R., Moutier R., Simon B., Womack J. E., Yamada J., and van Zutphen B. (1984b) Biochemical markers in inbred strains of the rat ({\i Rattus norvegicus}). {\i Immunogenet.} {\b 19}, 257-266.\par\par Bender K., Gunther E., et al. (1984c) Characterisation of rat inbred strains: report of a joint program and details on six additional polymorphic markers. {\i Rat News Lett.} {\b 13}, 10-18.\par\par Bender K., Balogh P., Bertrand M. F., den Bieman M., von Deimling O., Eghtessadi S., Gutman G. A., Hedrich H. J., Hunt S. V., Kluge R., Matsumoto K., Moralejo D. H., Nagel N., Portal A., Prokop C.-M., Siebert R. T., and van Zutphen L. F. M. (1994) Genetic characterization of inbred strains of the rat ({\i Rattus norvegicus}). {\i J. Exp. Anim. Sci.} {\b 36}, 151-165.\par\par Ben-Ishay B. (1984) The Sabra hypertension-prone and -resistant strains, in {\i Handbook of Hypertension Vol. 4. Experimental and genetic models of hypertension} (de Jong W., ed), pp. 296-313. Elsevier, Amsterdam, New York, Oxford.\par\par Ben-Ishay D. and Yagil Y. (1994) The Sabra hypertension-prone and -resistant strains, in {\i Handbook of Hypertension Vol. 16 Experimental and Genetic Models of Hypertension} (Ganten D. and de Jong W., eds), pp. 272-299. Elsevier, Amsterdam, New York, Oxford.\par\par Ben-Ishay D., Zamir N., Feuerstein G., Kobrin I., Le Quan-Bui K. H., and Devynck M. A. (1981) Distinguishing traits in the Sabra hypertension-prone (SBH) and hypertension-resistant (SBN) rats. {\i Clin. Exp. Hyperten.} {\b 3}, 737-747.\par\par Berdanier C. D., Pan J. S., Hartle D. K., and Michaelis O. E. (1993) Glucose-turnover in lean and obese rats of the SHE/N-cp and LA/N-cp strains. {\i Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology B-Biochemistry & Molecular Biology} {\b 106}, 87-94.\par\par Bertok L. (1980) "KIRBY-B" a new inbred rat. {\i Rat News Lett.} {\b 8}, 22a.\par\par Bianchi G., Fox U., and Imbasciati E. (1974) Development of a new strain of spontaneously hypertensive rats. {\i Life Sci.} {\b 14}, 339-347.\par\par Bianchi G., Ferrari P., and Barber B. R. (1984) The Milan hypertensive strain, in {\i Handbook of Hypertension Vol. 4. Experimental and genetic models of hypertension} (de Jong W., ed), pp. 328-349. Elsevier, Amsterdam, New York, Oxford.\par\par Bianchi G., Tripodi G., Casari G., Salardi S., Barber B. R., Garcia R., Leoni P., Torielli L., Cusi D., Ferrandi M., Pinna L. A., Baralle F. E., and  Ferrari P. (1994) 2 point mutations within the adducin genes are involved in blood- pressure variation. {\i Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America} {\b 91}, 3999-4003.\par\par Biesecker G. and Koffler D. (1988) Resistance to experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis in genetically inbred rats. {\i J. Immunol.} {\b 140}, 3406-3410.\par\par Bignami G. (1965) Selection for high rates and low rates of avoidance conditioning in the rat. {\i Anim. Behav.} {\b 13}, 221-227.\par\par Bihoreau M.-T., Ceccherini I., Browne J., Kranzlin B., Romeo G., Lathrop G. M., James M. R., and Gretz N. (1997) Location of the first genetic locus, PKDr1, controlling autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease in Han:SPRD cy/+rat. {\i Hum. Mol. Genet.} {\b 6}, 609-613.\par\par Billingham R. E. and Silvers W. K. (1959) Inbred animals and tissue transplantation immunity. {\i Transplant. Bull.} {\b 6}, 399-406.\par\par Blankenhorn E. P., Stranford S. A., Martin A. M., and Hickey W. F. (1995) Cloning of myelin basic protein-reactive T-cells from the experimental allergic encephalomyelitis-resistant rat strain, LER. {\i J. Neuroimmunol.} {\b 59}, 173-183.\par\par Blankert J. J., Muizert Y., van Es L. A., and Paul L. C. (1987) Cellular requirements for the induction of a humoral immune response to the endothelial alloantigen Eag-1. {\i Transplant. Proc.} {\b 19}, 3151-3152.\par\par Blizard D. A. and Adams N. (1992) Maternal influences on cardiovascular pathophysiology. {\i Experientia} {\b 48}, 334-345.\par\par Blizard D. A., Peterson W. N., and Adams N. (1991) Dietary salt and accelerated hypertension - lack of subline differentiation in Spontaneously Hypertensive Rat stocks from the United-States. {\i J. Hypertens.} {\b 9}, 1169-1175.\par\par Blottiere H. M., Menoret A., Burg C., Douillard J. Y., and Lependu J. (1992a) Identification and characterization of a rat protein (p-105) auto-antigenic in rats bearing a progressive syngeneic colon-carcinoma. {\i Int. J. Cancer} {\b 50}, 315-320.\par\par Blottiere H. M., Menoret A., Burg C., Douillard J. Y., Meflah K., and Lependu J. (1992b) Characterization of an autoantigen (p105) in a rat colon-carcinoma model. {\i Bulletin Du Cancer} {\b 79}, 47-53.\par\par Boorman G. A. and Hollander C. F. (1973) Spontaneous lesions in the female WAG/Rij (Wistar) rat. {\i J. Gerontol.} {\b 28}, 152-159.\par\par Boorman G. A. and Hollander C. F. (1974) High incidence of spontaneous urinary bladder and ureter tumors in the brown Norway rat. {\i J. Natl. Cancer Inst.} {\b 52}, 1005-1008.\par\par Boorman G. A., van Noord M. J., and Hollander C. F. (1972) Naturally occurring medullary thyroid carcinoma in the rat. {\i Arch. Pathol.} {\b 94}, 35-41.\par\par Boorman G. A., Zurcher C., Hollander C. F., and Feron V. J. (1973) Naturally occurring endocardial disease in the rat. {\i Arch. Pathol.} {\b 96}, 39-45.\par\par Boorman G. A., Eustis S. L., Elwell M. R., Montgomery J. C. A., and MacKenzie W. F. (1990) {\i Pathology of the Fischer rat}. Academic Press, Inc, San Diego.\par\par Borodin P. M. (1977) Strains. {\i Rat News Lett.} {\b 1}, 49.\par\par Bosland M. C., Prinsen M. K., Rivenson A., Silverman J., Fiala E., Williams G. M., Kroes R., and Weisburger J. H. (1992a) Induction of proliferative lesions of ventral prostate, seminal- vesicle, and other accessory sex glands in rats by N-methyl-N- nitrosourea - effect of castration, pretreatment with cyproterone- acetate and testosterone propionate, and rat strain. {\i Prostate} {\b 20}, 339-353.\par\par Bosland M. C., Prinsen M. K., Rivenson A., and Weisburger J. H. (1992b) Induction of skin and thyroid-tumors in male-rats by normal-methyl- normal-nitrosourea after sequential treatment with cyproterone- acetate and testosterone propionate - effects of castration, rat strain and time of carcinogen injection. {\i Carcinogenesis} {\b 13}, 669-674.\par\par Braden A. W. H. (1958) Strain differences in the incidence of polyspermia in rats after delayed mating. {\i Fert. Steril.} {\b 9}, 243-246.\par\par Brdicka R. (1984) Urinary proteins: interstrain differences in the laboratory rat. {\i Anim. Blood Gps. Biochem. Genet.} {\b 15}, 79-83.\par\par Breslin P. A. S., Spector A. C., and Grill H. J. (1995) Sodium specificity of salt appetite in Fischer-344 and Wistar rats is impaired by chorda tympani nerve transection. {\i American Journal of Physiology-Regulatory Integrative and Comparative Physiology} {\b 38}, R350-R356.\par\par Brewster D. J. (1968) Genetic analysis of ethanol preference in rats selected for emotional reactivity. {\i J. Hered.} {\b 59}, 283-286.\par\par Broadhurst P. L. (1975) The Maudsley reactive and non-reactive strains of rats: a survey. {\i Behav. Genet.} {\b 5}, 299-319.\par\par Brown D. M., Provoost A. P., Daly M. J., Lander E. S., and Jacob H. J. (1996) Renal disease susceptibility and hypertension are under independent genetic control in the fawn-hooded rat. {\i Nature Genet.} {\b 12}, 44-51.\par\par Buchanan T. A., Fisler J. S., Underberger S., Sipos G. F., and Bray G. A. (1992) Whole-body insulin sensitivity in Osborne-Mendel and S5B/Pl rats eating a low-fat or high-fat diet. {\i Am. J. Physiol.} {\b 263}, R785-R789.\par\par Buckley P., Hulse E. V., and Keep B. M. (1980) An inbred strain of rats with a high incidence of squamous-cell carcinomas of the mouth. {\i Brit. J. Cancer} {\b 41}, 295-301.\par\par Buda M., Lachuer J., Devauges V., Barbagli B., Blizard D., and Sara S. J. (1994) Central noradrenergic reactivity to stress in Maudsley rat strains. {\i Neurosci. Let.} {\b 167}, 33-36.\par\par Burek J. D. (1978) {\i Pathology of aging rats}. CRC Press, West Palm Beach, Florida.\par\par Burek J. D. and Hollander C. F. (1975a) Studies of spontaneous lesions in aging BN/Bi rats. I. Neoplastic and non-neoplastic lesions, in {\i Annual Report, Organization for Health Research}, pp. 235-237. TNO, Rijswijk.\par\par Burek J. D. and Hollander C. F. (1975b) Studies of spontaneous lesions in aging BN/Bi rats. II. Age associated incidence of tumors and tumor metastases, in {\i Annual Report, Organization for Health Research}, pp. 238-241. TNO, Rijswijk.\par\par Burek J. D. and Hollander C. F. (1977) Incidence patterns of spontaneous tumors in BN/Bi rats. {\i J. Natl. Cancer Inst.} {\b 58}, 99-105.\par\par Burek J. D., Zurcher C., and Hollander C. F. (1975) Spontaneous cervical and vaginal tumors in the females BN/Bi rat, in {\i Annual Report, Organization for Health Research}, pp. 248-249. TNO, Rijswijk.\par\par Burek J. D., Zurcher C., and Hollander C. F. (1976) High incidence of spontaneous cervical and vaginal tumors in an inbred strain of Brown Norway rats (BN/Bi). {\i J. Natl. Cancer Inst.} {\b 57}, 549-554.\par\par Burnet P. W. J., Michelson D., Smith M. A., Gold P. W., and Sternberg E. M. (1994) The effect of chronic imipramine administration on the densities of 5-HT1a and 5-HT2 receptors and the abundancies of 5-HT receptor and transporter messenger-RNA in the cortex, hippocampus and dorsal raphe of 3 strains of rat. {\i Brain Res.} {\b 638}, 311-324.\par\par Burtonboy G., Beckers A., Rodhain J., Bazin H., and Lamy M. E. (1978) Rat ileocecal immunocytoma. An ultrastructural study with special attention to the presence of viral particles. {\i J. Natl. Cancer Inst.} {\b 61}, 477-484.\par\par Buttemeyer R., Rao U., and Jones N. F. (1995) Peripheral-nerve allograft transplantation with FK506 - functional, histological, and immunological results before and after discontinuation of immunosuppression. {\i Annals of Plastic Surgery} {\b 35}, 396-401.\par\par Byrnes A. P., Rusby J. E., Wood M. J. A., and Charlton H. M. (1995) Adenovirus gene-transfer causes inflammation in the brain. {\i Neuroscience} {\b 66}, 1015-1024.\par\par Calcagnetti D. J. and Schechter M. D. (1994) Deficits in shock-induced freezing and naltrexone enhancement of freezing in Fawn-Hooded rats. {\i Brain Res. Bull.} {\b 35}, 37-40.\par\par Calderari S. A., Gonzalez A. C., and Gayol M. del C. (1987) Spontaneous hypertriglyceridemic obesity and hyperglycemia in an inbred line of rats. {\i Int. J. Obesity} {\b 11}, 571-579.\par\par Cameron T. P., Lattuada C. P., Kornreich M. R., and Tarone R. E. (1982) Longevity and reproductive comparisons for male ACI and Sprague-Dawley rat aging colonies. {\i Lab. Animal Sci.} {\b 32}, 495-499.\par\par Cameron T. P., Hickman R. L., Kornreich M. R., and Tarone R. E. (1985) History, survival, and growth patterns of B6C3F1 mice and F344 rats in the National Cancer Institute carcinogenesis testing program. {\i Fundam. Appl. Toxicol.} {\b 5}, 526-538.\par\par Campbell D. J., Duncan A. M., Kladis A., and Harrap S. B. (1995) Angiotensin peptides in spontaneously hypertensive and normotensive donryu rats. {\i Hypertension} {\b 25}, 928-934.\par\par Carthew P., Rich K. J., Martin E. A., De Matteis F., Lim C.-K., Manson M. M., Festing M. F. W., White I. N. H., and Smith L. L. (1995) DNA damage as assessed by {\up4 32}P-postlabelling in three rat strains exposed to dietary tamoxifen: the relationship between cell proliferation and liver tumour formation. {\i Carcinogenesis} {\b 16}, 1299-1304.\par\par Castanon N. and Mormede P. (1994) Psychobiogenetics - adapted tools for the study of the coupling between behavioral and neuroendocrine traits of emotional reactivity. {\i Psychoneuroendocrinology} {\b 19}, 257-282.\par\par Castanon N., Dulluc J., Lemoal M., and Mormede P. (1992) Prolactin as a link between behavioral and immune differences between the Roman rat lines. {\i Physiol. Behav.} {\b 51}, 1235-1241.\par\par Castanon N., Dulluc J., Lemoal M., and Mormede P. (1994) Maturation of the behavioral and neuroendocrine differences between the Roman rat lines. {\i Physiol. Behav.} {\b 55}, 775-782.\par\par Castanon N., Perezdiaz F., and Mormede P. (1995) Genetic-analysis of the relationships between behavioral and neuroendocrine traits in Roman High-Avoidance and Low-Avoidance rat lines. {\i Behav. Genet.} {\b 25}, 371-384.\par\par Ceccatelli S., Fahrenkrug J., Eneroth P., and Hokfelt T. (1992) Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide peptide histidine isoleucine- immunoreactive neuron systems in the basal hypothalamus of a rat strain with deficient prolactin-release in response to stress. {\i Journal of Neuroendocrinology} {\b 4}, 51-58.\par\par Chang L. T., Kras K., Suzuki K., Strasburg G., Rodgers C. D., and Schemmel R. A. (1995) Voluntary running in male S5B/Pl rats fed high-fat or high- carbohydrate diets. {\i Physiol. Behav.} {\b 57}, 501-508.\par\par Chanh P. H., Kaiser R., Lassierre B., Navarro-Delmasure C., and Moutier R. (1988) Creation of a strain of genetically obese-hypertensive rats. {\i Int. J. Obesity} {\b 12}, 141-147.\par\par Chaouloff F., Castanon N., and Mormede P. (1994) Paradoxical differences in animal-models of anxiety among the Roman rat lines. {\i Neurosci. Let.} {\b 182}, 217-221.\par\par Chappel C. I. and Chappel W. R. (1983) The discovery and development of the BB rat colony: An animal model of spontaneous diabetes mellitus. {\i Metabolism} {\b 32}, S8-S10.\par\par Charnay Y., Steimer T., Huguenin C., and Driscoll P. (1995) [H-3] paroxetine binding-sites - brain regional differences between 2 psychogenetically selected lines of rats. {\i Neurosci. Res. Commun.} {\b 16}, 29-35.\par\par Chatterajee B., Demyan W. F., Song C. S., Garg B. D., and Roy A. K. (1989) Loss of androgenic induction of 2u-globulin gene family in the liver of NIH black rats. {\i Endocrinol.} {\b 125}, 1385-1388.\par\par Chen X. H., Han J. S., and Huang L. T. (1994) Cck receptor antagonist L-365,260 potentiated electroacupuncture analgesia in Wistar rats but not in audiogenic epileptic rats. {\i Chinese Medical Journal} {\b 107}, 113-118.\par\par Chisholm P. M., Smith M. E., Sparshott S. M., and Ford W. L. (1977) A comparison of immune responses against Ag-B and non Ag-B antigens, presented alone or together. {\i Transplant.} {\b 23}, 470-478.\par\par Chowdhury N. R., Gross F., Moscioni A. D., Kram M., Arias I. M., and Chowdhury J. R. (1987) Isolation of multiple normal and functionally defective forms of uridine diphosphate-glucoronyltransferase from inbred Gunn rats. {\i J. Clin. Invest.} {\b 79}, 327-334.\par\par Cicila G. T., Rapp J. P., Bloch K. D., Kurtz T. W., Pravenec M., Kren V., Hong C. C., Quertermous T., and Ng S. C. (1994) Cosegregation of the endothelin-3 locus with blood-pressure and relative heart-weight in inbred Dahl rats. {\i J. Hypertens.} {\b 12}, 643-651.\par\par Clark C. J., Milligan G., and Connell J. M. C. (1993) Guanine-nucleotide regulatory protein alterations in the Milan Hypertensive rat strain. {\i J. Hypertens.} {\b 11}, 1161-1169.\par\par Clark C. J., Milligan G., and Connell J. M. C. (1994) Guanine-nucleotide regulatory protein alterations in young Milan Hypertensive strain rats. {\i Biochimica Et Biophysica Acta-Molecular Basis of Disease} {\b 1225}, 149-157.\par\par Clark R. L., Cuttino J. T., Anderle S. R., Cromartie W. J., and Schwab J. H. (1979) Radiologic analysis of arthritis in rats after systemic injection of streptococcal cell walls. {\i Arthritis Rheum.} {\b 22}, 25-35.\par\par Cockrell B. Y. and Garner F. M. (1976) Interstitial cell tumor. {\i Comp. Pathol. Bull.} {\b 8}, 2-3.\par\par Coenen A. M. L. and Van Luijtelaar E. L. J. M. (1987) The WAG/Rig rat model for absence epilepsy: age and sex factors. {\i Epilepsy Res.} {\b 1}, 297-301.\par\par Coenen A. M. L., Drinkenberg W. H. I. M., Inoue M., and Van Luijtelaar E. L. J. M. (1992) Genetic models of absence epilepsy, with emphasis on the WAG/Rij strain of rats. {\i Epilepsy Res.} {\b 12}, 75-86.\par\par Cohen A. J., McCarthy D. M., and Rossetti R. R. (1986) Renin secretion by the spontaneously diabetic rat. {\i Diabetes} {\b 35}, 341-346.\par\par Cohen A. M., Rosenmann E., and Rosenthal T. (1993) The Cohen diabetic (non-insulin-dependent) hypertensive rat model. Description of the model and pathological findings. {\i AJH} {\b 6}, 989-995.\par\par Cohen B. J., De Bruin R. W., and Kort W. J. (1970) Heritable hydronephrosis in a mutant strain of brown Norway rats. {\i Lab. Anim. Care} {\b 20}, 489-493.\par\par Cohen S. B. and Weetman A. P. (1988) The effect of iodine depletion and supplementation in the Buffalo strain rat. {\i J. Endocrinol. Invest.} {\b 11}, 625-627.\par\par Cohen S. M. and Friedell G. H. (1979) Carcinoma of the urinary bladder. {\i Am. J. Pathol.} {\b 95}, 849-852.\par\par Coleman G. L., Barthold S. W., Osbaldistan G. W., Foster S. J., and Jonas A. M. (1977) Pathological changes during aging in barrier-reared Fischer 344 male rats. {\i J. Gerontol.} {\b 32}, 258-278.\par\par Colly L. P. and Hagenbeek T. (1977) Experimental chemotherapy: A rat model for human acute myeloid leukemia, in {\i Experimental hematology today} (Baum S. J. and Ledney D. G., eds), pp. 211-219. Springer Verlag, New York.\par\par Colombo G., Hansen C., Hoffman P. L., and Grant K. A. (1992) Decreased performance in a delayed alternation task by rats genetically deficient in vasopressin. {\i Physiol. Behav.} {\b 52}, 827-830.\par\par Commissaris R. L., Harrington G. M., Baginski T. J., and Altman H. J. (1988) MR/Har and MNRA/Har Maudsley rat strains: differences in acoustic startle habituation. {\i Behav. Genet.} {\b 18}, 663-669.\par\par Commissaris R. L., Franklin L., Verbanac J. S., and Altman H. J. (1992) Maudsley Reactive (MR/Har) and nonreactive (MNRA/Har) rats - performance in an operant conflict paradigm. {\i Physiol. Behav.} {\b 52}, 873-878.\par\par Committee on the Care and Use of Spontaneously Hypertensive (SHR) Rats (1976) Spontaneously hypertensive (SHR) rats: guidelines for breeding, care nd use. {\i ILAR News} {\b 19}, G1-G20.\par\par Cowen L. A., Harold M. R., Chen C. M., Abbott R. E., and Schachter D. (1991) Immunoglobulin and renal abnormalities in Dahl genetically hypertensive rat. {\i Am. J. Physiol.} {\b 261}, H1895-H1902.\par\par Cramer D. V. and Gill T. J. III (1975) Genetics of urogenital abnormalities in ACI inbred rats. {\i Teratology} {\b 12}, 27-32.\par\par Cramer D. V., Shonnard J. W., Davis B. K., and Gill III T. J. (1977) Polymorphism of the mixed lymphocyte response of wild Norway rats. {\i Transplant. Proc.} {\b 9}, 559-562.\par\par Cremer M. A., Terato K., Watson W. C., Griffiths M. M., Townes A. S., and Kang A. H. (1992) Collagen-induced arthritis in rats - examination of the epitope specificities of circulating and cartilage-bound antibodies produced by outbred and inbred rats using cyanogen bromide-derived peptides purified from heterologous and homologous type-II collagens. {\i J. Immunol.} {\b 149}, 1045-1053.\par\par Cromartie W. J., Craddock J. C., Schwab J. H., Anderle S. K., and Yang C. H. (1977) Arthritis in rats after systemic injection of streptococcal cells or cell walls. {\i J. Exp. Med.} {\b 146}, 1585-1602.\par\par Cutler L. S., Bullis D., and Greiner D. L. (1987) Experimental autoallergic sialadenitis in the LEW rat: A reproducible animal model of Sjogren's syndrome. {\i Transplant. Proc.} {\b 19}, 3196-3198.\par\par Czerwinski M. J. and Crowell J. S. Jr. (1986) Genetic monitoring of the rat (Ratus norvegicus). {\i Rat News Lett.} {\b 17}, 9-10.\par\par Dahl L. K., Heine M., and Tassinari L. (1962a) Effects of chronic excess salt ingestion. Evidence that genetic factors play an important role in susceptibility to experimental hypertension. {\i J. Exp. Med.} {\b 115}, 1173-1190.\par\par Dahl L. K., Heine M., and Tassinari L. (1962b) Role of genetic factors in susceptibility to experimental hypertension due to chronic excess salt ingestion. {\i Nature} {\b 194}, 480-482.\par\par Dailey J. W., Reigel C. E., Mishra P. K., and Jobe P. C. (1989) Review article. Neurobiology of seizure predisposition in the genetically epilepsy-prone rat. {\i Epilepsy Res.} {\b 3}, 3-17.\par\par Danis R. P. and Yang Y. H. (1993) Microvascular retinopathy in the Zucker diabetic fatty rat. {\i Investigative Ophthalmology & Visual Science} {\b 34}, 2367-2371.\par\par Davey F. R. and Moloney W. C. (1970) Postmortem observations of Fischer rats with leukemia and other disorders. {\i Lab. Invest.} {\b 23}, 327-334.\par\par Davis C. T., Blankenhorn E. P., and Murasko D. M. (1984) Genetic variaion in the ability of several strains of rats to produce interferon in response to polyriboinosinic-polyribocytodilic acid. {\i Infect. Immun.} {\b 43}, 580-583.\par\par Deerberg F., Rehm S., and Jostmeyer H. H. (1985) Spontaneous urinary bladder tumors in DA/Han rats: A feasible model of human bladder cancer. {\i J. Natl. Cancer Inst.} {\b 75}, 1113-1121.\par\par Deerberg F., Pohlmeyer G., Lorcher K., and Petrow V. (1995) Total suppression of spontaneous endometrial carcinoma in BDII/Han rats by melengestrol acetate. {\i Oncology} {\b 52}, 319-325.\par\par De Jong W., ed (1984) {\i Handbook of Hypertension, Vol. 4 Experimental and genetic models of hypertension}. Elsevier, Amsterdam, New York, Oxford.\par\par Dekozak Y., Naud M. C., Bellot J., Faure J. P., and Hicks D. (1994) Differential tumor-necrosis-factor expression by resident retinal cells from experimental uveitis-susceptible and uveitis-resistant rat strains. {\i J. Neuroimmunol.} {\b 55}, 1-9.\par\par Dent J. G., Graichen M. E., Schnell S., and Lasker J. (1980) Constitutive and induced hepatic microsomal cytochrome P-450 monooxygenase activities in male Fischer-344 rats and CD rats. A comparative study. {\i Toxicol. Appl. Pharmacol.} {\b 52}, 45-53.\par\par Dhabhar F. S., McEwen B. S., and Spencer R. L. (1993) Stress-response, adrenal-steroid receptor levels and corticosteroid- binding globulin levels - a comparison between Sprague-Dawley, Fischer-344 and Lewis rats. {\i Brain Res.} {\b 616}, 89-98.\par\par Dietz R., Shomig A., and Rascher W. (1984) Pathophysiological aspects of genetically-determined hypertension in rats with special emphasis on stroke prone spontaneously hypertensive rats, in {\i Handbook of Hypertension Vol. 4. Experimental and genetic models of hypertension} (de Jong W., ed), pp. 256-285. Elsevier, Amsterdam, New York, Oxford.\par\par Diloreto D., Cox C., Grover D. A., Lazar E., Delcerro C., and Delcerro M. (1994) The influences of age, retinal topography, and gender on retinal degeneration in the Fischer-344 rat. {\i Brain Res.} {\b 647}, 181-191.\par\par Dodds W. J. (1988) Third international registry of animal models of thrombosis and hemorrhagic diseases. {\i ILAR News} {\b 30}, R1-RR.\par\par Donner M. E., Skow L. C., Kunz H. W., and Gill III T. J. (1985) Electrophoretic variation in low molecular weight lens crystallins from inbred strains of rats. {\i Biochem. Genet.} {\b 23}, 787-800.\par\par Douglas T. C., Kimmel C. B., and Dawson P. E. (1982) Genetically controlled variation of "acid" beta-galactosidase detected in {\i Rattus norvegicus} by isoelectric focussing. {\i Genetics} {\b 100}, 455-573.\par\par Dowling J. E. and Sidman R. L. (1962) Inherited retinal dystrophy in the rat. {\i J. Cell Biol.} {\b 14}, 73-109.\par\par Drinkenberg W. H. I. M., Coenen A. M. L., Vossen J. M. H., and Van Luijtelaar E. L. J. M. (1991) Spike-wave discharges and sleep-wake states in rats with absence epilepsy. {\i Epilepsy Res.} {\b 9}, 218-224.\par\par Driscoll B. F., Kies M. W., and Alvord J. E. C. (1985) The nature of the defect in experimental allergic encaphalomyelitis (EAE)-resistant Lewis (Le-R) rats. {\i J. Immunol.} {\b 134}, 1567-1570.\par\par Driscoll P., Fumm H., and Battig K. (1979) Maternal behavior in two rat lines selected for differences in the acquisition of two-way avoidance. {\i Experientia} {\b 35}, 786-788.\par\par Druckrey H. (1971) Genotypes and phenotypes of ten inbred strains of BD-rats. {\i Arzneim-Forsch. (Drug Research)} {\b 21}, 1274-1278.\par\par Druckrey H., Landschutz C., and Ivankovic S. (1970) Transplacentare Erzeugnung maligner Tumoren des Nervensystems. II. Athyl-nitrosoharnstoff an 10 genetisch definierten Ratten-stammen. {\i Z. Krebsforsch.} {\b 73}, 371-386.\par\par Dubay C., Vincent M., Samani N. J., Hilbert P., Kaiser M. A., Beressi J. P., Kotelevtsev Y., Beckmann J. S., Soubrier F., Sassard J., and Lathrop G. M. (1993) Genetic-determinants of diastolic and pulse pressure map to different loci in Lyon Hypertensive Rats. {\i Nature Genet.} {\b 3}, 354-357.\par\par Dunning W. F. and Curtis M. R. (1946) The respective roles of longevity and genetic specificity in the occurrence of spontaneous tumors in the hybrids between two inbred lines of rats. {\i Cancer Res.} {\b 6}, 61-81.\par\par Dunning W. F., Curtis M. R., and Segaloff A. (1947) Strain differences in response to diethylstilbestrol and the induction of mammary gland and bladder cancer in the rat. {\i Cancer Res.} {\b 7}, 511-521.\par\par Dutsch H. R. and Battig H. (1977) Psychogenetische unterschiede (RHA-vs RLA-Ratten) im vermeidungslernen, offenfeldverhalten, Hebb-Willisms-intelligenztest und be der labrinthexploration. {\i Z. Exp. Angew. Psychol.} {\b 24}, 230-243.\par\par Ebner S. A., Lueprasitsakul W., Alex S., Fang S. L., Appel M. C., and Braverman L. E. (1992) Iodine content of rat thyroglobulin affects its antigenicity in inducing lymphocytic thyroiditis in the BB/Wor rat. {\i Autoimmunity} {\b 13}, 209-214.\par\par Eisenberger U., Fels L. M., Olbricht C. J., and Stolte H. (1995) Cathepsin-B and cathepsin-L in isolated proximal tubular segments during acute and chronic proteinuria. {\i Renal Physiology and Biochemistry} {\b 18}, 89-96.\par\par Elhifnawi E. (1995) Localization of cathepsin-D in rat ocular-tissues - an immunohistochemical study. {\i Annals of Anatomy-Anatomischer Anzeiger} {\b 177}, 11-17.\par\par Elhifnawi E. S., Kuhnel W., Orun C., Haug H., and Laqua H. (1992) The effect of cyclooxygenase inhibitors on the course of hereditary retinal dystrophy in RCS-rats. {\i Annals of Anatomy-Anatomischer Anzeiger} {\b 174}, 251-258.\par\par Elhifnawi E., Kuhnel W., Elhifnawi A., and Laqua H. (1994) Localization of lysosomal-enzymes in the retina and retinal-pigment epithelium of RCS rats. {\i Annals of Anatomy-Anatomischer Anzeiger} {\b 176}, 505-513.\par\par Ely D. L., Daneshvar H., Turner M. E., Johnson M. L., and Salisbury R. L. (1993) The hypertensive Y-chromosome elevates blood-pressure in F11 normotensive rats. {\i Hypertension} {\b 21}, 1071-1075.\par\par Ely J. M., Greiner D. L., Lubaroff D. M., and Fitch F. W. (1983) Characterization of monoclonal antibodies that define rat T cell alloantigens. {\i J. Immunol.} {\b 130}, 2798-2803.\par\par English J. C., Perry L. G., Vlaovic M., Moyer C., and Odonoghue J. L. (1994) Measurement of cell-proliferation in the kidneys of Fischer-344 and Sprague-Dawley rats after gavage administration of hydroquinone. {\i Fundam. Appl. Toxicol.} {\b 23}, 397-406.\par\par Esber H. J., Menninger F. F. Jr., and Bogden A. E. (1974) Variation in serum hormone concentrations in different rat strains. {\i Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med.} {\b 146}, 1050-1053.\par\par Escorihuela R. M., Tobena A., Driscoll P., and Fernandezteruel A. (1995) Effects of training, early handling, and perinatal flumazenil on shuttle box acquisition in Roman Low-Avoidance rats - toward overcoming a genetic deficit. {\i Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Reviews} {\b 19}, 353-367.\par\par Essner E. and Gorrin G. (1979) An electron microscopic study of macrophages in rats with inherited retinal dystrophy. Invest. Ophthalmol. {\i Visual Sci.} {\b 18}, 11-25.\par\par Essner E., Gorrin G., and Griewski R. A. (1978) Localization of lysosomal enzymes in retinal pigment epithelium of rats with inherited retinal dystrophy. {\i Invest. Ophthalmol. Visual Sci.} {\b 17}, 278-288.\par\par Essner E., Pino R. M., and Griewski R. A. (1979) Permeability of retinal capillaries in rats with inherited retinal degeneration. Invest. Ophthalmol. {\i Visual Sci.} {\b 18}, 859-863.\par\par Estape E. S., Rodriguezsargent C., Cangiano J. L., and Candia O. A. (1995) Increased dietary NaCl intake influences lens transport-properties in Sprague-Dawley rats. {\i Current Eye Research} {\b 14}, 159-162.\par\par Ewel C. H., Sobel D. O., Zeligs B. J., and Bellanti J. A. (1992) Poly-I-C accelerates development of diabetes-mellitus in diabetes-prone BB rat. {\i Diabetes} {\b 41}, 1016-1021.\par\par Faktorovich E. G., Steinberg R. H., Yasumura D., Matthes M. T., and Lavail M. M. (1992) Basic fibroblast growth-factor and local injury protect photoreceptors from light damage in the rat. {\i Journal of Neuroscience} {\b 12}, 3554-3567.\par\par Fan X. M., Hendley E. D., and Forehand C. J. (1995) Enhanced vascular neuropeptideYy-immunoreactive innervation in 2 hypertensive rat strains. {\i Hypertension} {\b 26}, 758-763.\par\par Fechtali T., Rostain J. C., and Abraini J. H. (1993) Relationship between emotional status and spontaneous behavior in rats exposed to high-pressure. {\i Physiol. Behav.} {\b 54}, 1011-1014.\par\par Fernandezteruel A., Escorihuela R. M., Driscoll P., Tobena A., and Battig K. (1992a) Differential-effects of early stimulation and or perinatal flumazenil treatment in young Roman Low-Avoidance and High-Avoidance rats. {\i Psychopharmacology} {\b 108}, 170-176.\par\par Fernandezteruel A., Escorihuela R. M., Nunez J. F., Goma M., Driscoll P., and  Tobena A. (1992b) Early stimulation effects on novelty-induced behavior in 2 psychogenetically-selected rat lines with divergent emotionality profiles. {\i Neurosci. Let.} {\b 137}, 185-188.\par\par Fernandezteruel A., Driscoll P., Escorihuela R. M., Tobena A., and Battig K. (1993) Postnatal handling, perinatal flumazenil, and adult behavior of the Roman rat lines. {\i Pharmacol. Biochem. Behav.} {\b 44}, 783-789.\par\par Fernandezteruel A., Escorihuela R. M., Driscoll P., Tobena A., and Battig K. (1994) Evaluating activity and emotional reactivity in a hexagonal tunnel maze - correlational and factorial analysis from a study with the Roman-Verh rat lines. {\i Behav. Genet.} {\b 24}, 419-425.\par\par Ferrandi M., Minotti E., Salardi S., Florio M., Bianchi G., and Ferrari P. (1992) Ouabain-like factor in Milan Hypertensive rats. {\i Am. J. Physiol.} {\b 263}, F739-F748.\par\par Ferrandi M., Minotti E., Salardi S., Florio M., Bianchi G., and Ferrari P. (1993) Characteristics of a ouabain-like factor from Milan Hypertensive rats. {\i J. Cardiovasc. Pharmacol.} {\b 22}, S75-S78.\par\par Festing M. F. W. (1979a) Inbred strains, in {\i The Laboratory Rat Vol. I. Biology and Diseases} (Baker H. J., Lindsey J. R., and Weisbroth S. H., eds), pp. 55-72. Academic Press, New York.\par\par Festing M. F. W. (1979b) {\i Inbred strains in biomedical research, 1st ed.} Macmillan Press, London, Basingstoke.\par\par Festing M. F. W. Inbred strains of rats. Unpublished listing.\par\par Festing M. F. W. and Bender K. (1984) Genetic relationships between inbred strains of rats. An analysis based on genetic markers at 28 biochemical loci. {\i Genet. Res.} {\b 44}, 271-281.\par\par Festing M. F. W. and Blackmore D. K. (1971) Life span of specified-pathogen-free (MRC category 4) mice and rats. {\i Lab. Anim.} {\b 5}, 179-192.\par\par Festing M. F. W. and Staats J. (1973) Standardized nomenclature for inbred strains of rats. Fourth listing. {\i Transplant.} {\b 16}, 221-245.\par\par Festing M. F. W., Hawkey C. M., Hart M. G., Turton J. A., Gwynne J., and Hicks R. M. (1984) Principal components analysis of haematological data from F344 rats with bladder cancer fed the retinoid N-(ethyl) -all-trans-retinamide. {\i Food Chem. Toxicol} {\b 22}, 559-572.\par\par Foulkes R., Ferrario R. G., Salvati P., and Bianchi G. (1992) Differences in ouabain-induced natriuresis between isolated kidneys of Milan Hypertensive and Normotensive rats. {\i Clin. Sci.} {\b 82}, 185-190.\par\par Fraser A. G., Debnam E. S., Dhillon A. P., and Pounder R. E. (1992) Gastric epithelial-cell proliferation and histological damage after hypertonic sodium-chloride - the effect of variation in the strain of rat. {\i International Journal of Experimental Pathology} {\b 73}, 241-250.\par\par Fregly M. J. (1975) Thyroid activity of spontaneous hypertensive rats. {\i Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med.} {\b 149}, 124-132.\par\par Friedman I., Ron N., Laufer A., and Davies A. M. (1970) Experimental myocarditis: enhancement by the use of pertussis vaccine in Lewis rats. {\i Experientia} {\b 26}, 1143-1145.\par\par Fujita O. (1984) "Tsukuba Emotionality"; new selected strains. {\i Rat News Lett.} {\b 13}, 31.\par\par Fumm H. and Battig H. (1979) Development of exploratory behavior in RHA- and RLA-rats. {\i Experientia} {\b 35}, 920.\par\par Funakoshi A., Miyasaka K., Shinozaki H., Masuda M., Kawanami T., Takata Y., and Kono A. (1995) An animal-model of congenital defect of gene-expression of cholecystokinin (CCK)-a receptor. {\i Biochemical and Biophysical Research Communications} {\b 210}, 787-796.\par\par Gahnem F., Vonlutterotti N., Camargo M. J. F., Laragh J. H., and Sealey J. E. (1994) Angiotensinogen dependency of blood-pressure in 2 high-renin hypertensive rat models. {\i AJH} {\b 7}, 899-904.\par\par Gao J., Sherman W. M., McCune S. A., and Osei K. (1994) Effects of acute running exercise on whole-body insulin action in obese male SHHF/Mcc-fa(cp) rats. {\i J. Appl. Physiol.} {\b 77}, 534-541.\par\par Gasser D. L., Palm J., and Gonatas N. K. (1975) Genetic control of susceptibility to experimental allergic encephalomyelitis and the Ag-B locus of rats. {\i J. Immunol.} {\b 115}, 431-433.\par\par Gasser D. L., Balyannis S. J., and Gonatas N. K. (1978) Influence of MHC-linked and non-MHC-linked genes on susceptibility of rats to experimental allergic encephalomyelitis, in {\i Genetic control of autoimmune disease} (Rose N. R., Bigazzi P. E., and Warner N. L., eds), pp. 355-364. Elsevier-North Holland, New York.\par\par Gasser D. L., Hickey W. F., and Gonatas N. K. (1983) The genes for nonsusceptibility to EAE in the Le-R and BH strains are not linked to RT1. {\i Immunogenet.} {\b 17}, 441-444.\par\par Ghosh P., Somanchi M., and Lakshman M. R. (1995) Regulatory enzymes of lipid-metabolism in LA/N-cp rats. {\i Journal of Nutritional Biochemistry} {\b 6}, 348-352.\par\par Gilad G. M., Li R., Wyatt R. J., and Tizabi Y. (1993) Effects of genotype on age-related alterations in the concentrations of stress hormones in plasma and hypothalamic monoamines in rats. {\i J. Reprod. Fertil.} {\b S46}, 119-130.\par\par Ginn D. I., Baptista C. A. C., Alam K. Y., Deng A. Y., Cicila G. T., Margolius H. S., and Rapp J. P. (1993) Estimate of the genetic-divergence between inbred Dahl salt-sensitive and salt-resistant rats. {\i J. Hypertens.} {\b 11}, 477-481.\par\par Giorgi O., Orlandi M., Escorihuela R. M., Driscoll P., Lecca D., and Corda M. G. (1994) Gabaergic and dopaminergic transmission in the brain of Roman High- Avoidance and Roman Low-Avoidance rats. {\i Brain Res.} {\b 638}, 133-138.\par\par Gleiser C. A. and Shain S. A. (1986) The aging AXC/SSh rat: assessment of longevity and prevalence of neoplastic and nonneoplastic diseases in necropsied rats. {\i J. Gerontol.} {\b 41}, 590-598.\par\par Glover E. L., Reuber M. D., and Godfrey F. (1969) Methylcholanthrene-induced thyroiditis. Susceptibility of Buffalo strain rats. {\i Arch. Environ. Health} {\b 18}, 901-903.\par\par Glowa J. R., Geyer M. A., Gold P. W., and Sternberg E. M. (1992) Differential startle amplitude and corticosterone response in rats. {\i Neuroendocrinology} {\b 56}, 719-723.\par\par Glowa J. R., Shaw A. E., and Riley A. L. (1994) Cocaine-induced conditioned taste-aversions - comparisons between effects in LEW/N and F344/N rat strains. {\i Psychopharmacology} {\b 114}, 229-232.\par\par Gold G. and Widnell C. C. (1975) Response of NADPH cytochrome c reductase and cytochrome P-450 in hepatic microsomes to treatment with phenobarbital--Differences in rat strains. {\i Biochem. Pharmacol.} {\b 24}, 2106.\par\par Golden G. T., Smith G. G., Ferraro T. N., and Reyes P. F. (1995) Rat strain and age-differences in kainic acid-induced seizures. {\i Epilepsy Res.} {\b 20}, 151-159.\par\par Goldmuntz E. A., Wilder R. L., Goldfarb Y., Cash J. M., Zha H. B., Crofford L. J., Mathern P., Hansen C. T., and Remmers E. F. (1993) The origin of the autoimmune disease-resistant LER rat - an outcross between the Buffalo and autoimmune disease-prone Lewis inbred rat strains. {\i J. Neuroimmunol.} {\b 44}, 215-219.\par\par Goldstein D. J., Wheeler D. C., Sandstrom D. J., Kawachi H., and Salant D. J. (1995) Fish-oil ameliorates renal injury and hyperlipidemia in the Milan Normotensive rat model of focal glomerulosclerosis. {\i Journal of the American Society of Nephrology} {\b 6}, 1468-1475.\par\par Gollner D., Kawachi H., Oite T., Oka M., Nagase M., and Shimizu F. (1995) Strain variation in susceptibility to the development of monoclonal- antibody 5-1-6-induced proteinuria in rats. {\i Clin. Exp. Immunol.} {\b 101}, 341-345.\par\par Gonzales F. J., Matsunuga T., Nagata K., Meyer U. A., Nebert D. W., Pastewka J., Kozak C. A., Gillette J., Gelboin H. V., and Hardwick J. P. (1987) Debrisoquine 4-hydroxylase: characterization of a new P450 gene subfamily, regulation, chromosomal mapping, and molecular analysis of the DA rat polymorphism. {\i DNA} {\b 6}, 149-161.\par\par Goodall C. M. and Doesburg R. M. N. (1981) Age-specific incidence of neoplasms in untreated N2R/Gd rats: An inbred strain with cardiovascular tumours and liver glycogen storage disease. {\i J. Pathol.} {\b 135}, 147-157.\par\par Goodall C. M., Christie G. S., and Hurley J. V. (1975) Primary epithelial tumour in the right atrium of the heart and inferior vena cava in NZR/Gd inbred rats; pathology of 18 cases. {\i J. Pathol.} {\b 116}, 239-251.\par\par Goodman D. C., Ward J. M., Squire R. A., Chu K. C., and Linhart M. S. (1979) Neoplastic and nonneoplastic lesions in aging F344 rats. {\i Toxicol. Appl. Pharmacol.} {\b 48}, 237-248.\par\par Gordon C. J. and Watkinson W. P. (1995) Strain differences in the laboratory rat - impact on the autonomic, behavioral, and biochemical response to cholinesterase inhibition. {\i J. Toxicol. Environ. Health} {\b 45}, 59-73.\par\par Gosnell B. A. and Krahn D. D. (1993) Morphine-induced feeding - a comparison of the Lewis and Fischer 344 inbred rat strains. {\i Pharmacol. Biochem. Behav.} {\b 44}, 919-924.\par\par Goto Y., Kakizaki M., and Masaki N. (1975) Spontaneous diabetes produced by selective breeding of normal Wistar rats. {\i Proc. Japan. Acad. Sci.} {\b 51}, 80-85.\par\par Gouyon B. A., Reyldesmars F., Leromancer M., Pigeon C., Lewin M. J. M., and Lehy T. (1995) In-vivo effect of somatostatin analog, lanreotide, and/or GRP antagonist, BIM-26226, on the growth of colon-cancer peritoneal carcinomatosis in the rat. {\i International Journal of Oncology} {\b 7}, 1167-1173.\par\par Gray J. E., van Zwieten M. J., and Hollander C. F. (1982) Early light microscopic changes of chronic progressive nephrosis in several strains of aging laboratory rats. {\i J. Gerontol.} {\b 37}, 142-150.\par\par Greenhouse D. D., Festing M. F. W., Hasan S., and Cohen A. L. (1990) Catalogue of inbred strains of rats, in {\i Genetic monitoring of inbred strains of rats} (Hedrich H. J., ed), pp. 410-480. Gustav Fischer, Stuttgart, New York. (Gustav Fischer; Stuttgart, New York; N)\par\par Greiner D. L. (1984) T cell alloantigenic systems in the rat. {\i Rat News Lett.} {\b 13}, 21-22.\par\par Greiner D. L., Handler E. S., Nakano K., Mordes J. P., and Rossini A. A. (1986) Absence of the RT-6 T cell subset in diabetes-prone BB/W rats. {\i J. Immunol.} {\b 136}, 148-151.\par\par Gretz N., Kranzlin B., Pey R., Schieren G., Bach J., Obermuller N., Ceccherini I., Kloting I., Rohmeiss P., Bachmann S., and Hafner M. (1996) Rat models of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease. {\i Nephrol. Dial. Transplant.} {\b 11 (Suppl. 6)}, 46-51.\par\par Griffiths M. M., Sawitzke A. D., Harper D. S., McCall S., Reese V. R., and Cannon G. W. (1994) Exacerbation of collagen-induced arthritis in rats by rat cytomegalovirus is antigen-specific. {\i Autoimmunity} {\b 18}, 177-187.\par\par Grobecker H., Roisen M. F., Weise V., Saavedra J. M., and Kopin I. J. (1975) Sympathoadrenal medullary activity in young, spontaneously hypertensive rats. {\i Nature} {\b 258}, 267.\par\par Grond J., Beukers J. Y. B., Shilthuis M. S., Weening J. J., and Elema J. D. (1986) Analysis of renal structural and functional features in two rat strains with a different susceptibility to glomerular sclerosis. {\i Lab. Invest.} {\b 54}, 77-83.\par\par Guberski D. L., Butler L., Wallace J. E., and Like A. A. (1990) The BBZ/Wor rat: pancreatic B-cells of obese rats are more susceptible to immune destruction than B-cells of lean rats., in {\i Frontiers of Diabetes Research II. Lessons from Animal Diabetes, III} (Shafrir E., ed), p. IV3.1. Smith-Gordon, .\par\par Guitart X., Beitnerjohnson D., Marby D. W., Kosten T. A., and Nestler E. J. (1992) Fischer and Lewis rat strains differ in basal levels of neurofilament proteins and their regulation by chronic morphine in the mesolimbic dopamine system. {\i Synapse} {\b 12}, 242-253.\par\par Gunther E., Mozes E., Rode E., and Sela M. (1976) Genetic control of immune responsiveness to poly ( Pro) poly ( Lys ) derived polypeptides by histocompatibility-linked immune response genes in the rat. {\i J. Immunol.} {\b 117}, 2047-2052.\par\par Gutman G. A. (1990) Immunoglobulin asllotypes of inbred rat strains. {\i Rat News Lett.} {\b 23}, 4-5.\par\par Haag J. D., Newton M. A., and Gould M. N. (1992a) Mammary carcinoma suppressor and susceptibility genes in the Wistar-Kyoto rat. {\i Carcinogenesis} {\b 13}, 1933-1935.\par\par Haag J. D., Newton M. A., and Gould M. N. (1992b) Mammary-carcinoma suppressor and susceptibility genes in the Wistar- Kyoto rat. {\i Carcinogenesis} {\b 13}, 1933-1935.\par\par Hackbarth H., Baunack E., and Winn M. (1981) Strain differences in kidney function of inbred rats: 1. Glomerular filtration rate and renal plasma flow. {\i Lab. Anim.} {\b 15}, 125-128.\par\par Hackbarth H., Burow K., and Schimansky G. (1983) Strain differences in inbred rats: Influence of strain and diet on haematological traits. {\i Lab. Anim.} {\b 17}, 7-12.\par\par Hajdu A. and Rona G. (1969) Spontaneous thyroiditis in laboratory rats. {\i Experientia} {\b 25}, 1325-1327.\par\par Hall C. E., Ayachi S., and Hall O. (1976) Immunity of Fischer 344 rats to salt hypertension. {\i Life Sci.} {\b 18}, 1001-1007.\par\par Hamet P., Kong D., Pravenec M., Kunes J., Kren V., Klir P., Sun Y. L., and Tremblay J. (1992) Restriction-fragment-length-polymorphism of hsp70-gene, localized in the RT1-complex, is associated with hypertension in spontaneously hypertensive rats. {\i Hypertension} {\b 19}, 611-614.\par\par Haney M., Castanon N., Cador M., Lemoal M., and Mormede P. (1994) Cocaine sensitivity in Roman High and Low-Avoidance rats is modulated by sex and gonadal hormone status. {\i Brain Res.} {\b 645}, 179-185.\par\par Hansell P. (1995a) In-vivo evidence for a defect in the dopamine da(1) receptor in the prehypertensive Dahl salt-sensitive rat. {\i Experimental Nephrology} {\b 3}, 15-22.\par\par Hansell P. (1995b) In-vivo evidence for a defect in the dopamine DA{\up4 1} receptor in the prehypertensive Dahl salt-sensitive rat. {\i Experimental Nephrology} {\b 3}, 15-22.\par\par Hansen C. T., Judge F. J., and Whitney R. A. (1973) {\i Catalogue of NIH Rodents. DREW Publ. No. 74-606}. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, Washington, D.C.: U.S.\par\par Hansen C. T., Potkay S., Watson W. T., and Whitney R. A. Jr. (1982) {\i NIH Rodents: (1980). Catalogue. NIH Publ. No. 83-606}. Department of Health and Human Services, Washington, D.C.: U.S.\par\par Harbuz M. S., Rees R. G., Eckland D., Jessop D. S., Brewerton D., and Lightman S. L. (1992) Paradoxical responses of hypothalamic corticotropin-releasing factor (crf) messenger-ribonucleic-acid (messenger-RNA) and crf-41 peptide and adenohypophyseal proopiomelanocortin messenger-RNA during chronic inflammatory stress. {\i Endocrinol.} {\b 130}, 1394-1400.\par\par Harrington G. M. (1971a) Strain differences among rats initiating exploration of differing environments. {\i Psychon. Sci.} {\b 23}, 348-349.\par\par Harrington G. M. (1971b) Strain differences in rotating wheel activity of the rat. {\i Psychon. Sci.} {\b 23}, 363-364.\par\par Harrington G. M. (1972) Strain differences in open-field behavior of the rat. {\i Psychon. Sci.} {\b 27}, 51-53.\par\par Harrington G. M. (1979a) Strain differences in activity of the rat in a shuttle stabilimeter. {\i Bull. Psychon. Soc.} {\b 13}, 149-150.\par\par Harrington G. M. (1979b) Strain differences in activity of the rat using a home cage stabilimeter. {\i Bull. Psychon. Soc.} {\b 13}, 151-152.\par\par Harrington G. M. (1979c) Strain differences in free operant lever press levels in the rat. {\i Bull. Psychon. Soc.} {\b 13}, 153-154.\par\par Harrington G. M. (1979d) Strain differences in light-contingent barpress behavior of the rat. {\i Bull. Psychon. Soc.} {\b 13}, 155-156.\par\par Harrington G. M. (1979e) Strain differences in open-field behavior of the rat. II. {\i Bull. Psychon. Soc.} {\b 13}, 85-86.\par\par Harrington G. M. (1979f) Strain differences in passive avoidance conditioning in the rat. {\i Bull. Psychon. Soc.} {\b 13}, 57-158.\par\par Harrington G. M. (1979g) Strain differences in runway learning in the rat. {\i Bull. Psychon. Soc.} {\b 13}, 159-160.\par\par Harrington G. M. (1979h) Strain differences in shuttle avoidance conditioning in the rat. {\i Bull. Psychon. Soc.} {\b 13}, 161-162.\par\par Harrington G. M. (1979i) Strain differences in simple operant barpress acquisition to an auditory stimulus by rats. {\i Bull. Psychon. Soc.} {\b 13}, 163-164.\par\par Harrington G. M. (1981) The Har strains of rats: Origins and characteristics. {\i Behav. Genet.} {\b 11}, 445-467.\par\par Harris J. M., Kalmus H., and West G. B. (1963) Genetical control of the anaphylactoid reaction in rats. {\i Genet. Res.} {\b 4}, 346-355.\par\par Harris S. R., Mehta R. S., Hartle D. K., Broderson J. R., and Bunce O. R. (1994) Failure of high-fat diets to promote mammary cancers in Spontaneously Hypertensive Rats. {\i Cancer Lett.} {\b 87}, 9-15.\par\par Hass G. J., McCune S. A., Brown D. M., and Cody R. J. (1995) Echocardiographic characterization of left-ventricular adaptation in a genetically-determined heart-failure rat model. {\i American Heart Journal} {\b 130}, 806-811.\par\par Hayashi M., Endoh D., Kon Y., Yamashita T., Hashimoto N., Sato F., Kasai N., and  Namioka S. (1992) Higher sensitivity of LEC strain rat in radiation-induced acute intestinal death. {\i J. Vet. Med. Sci.} {\b 54}, 269-273.\par\par Hayashi M., Endoh D., Kon Y., Yamashita T., Sato F., Kasai N., and Namioka S. (1993) Hypersensitivity of LEC strain rats in radiation-induced acute bone- marrow death. {\i J. Vet. Med. Sci.} {\b 55}, 13-18.\par\par Hedrich H. J. (1990) Catalogue of mutant genes and polymorphic loci, in {\i Genetic monitoring of inbred strains of rats} (Hedrich H. J., ed), pp. 289-404. Gustav Fischer, Stuttgart.\par\par Hedrich H. J., von Deimling O., and Kluge R. (1987) Biochemical geneticsof Es-14 (formerly Es-Si) and a new esterase variation, Es-15, of the laboratory rat ({\i Rattus norvegicus}): biochemistry, tissue expression, in linkage group V. {\i Biochem. Genet.} {\b 25}, 79-93.\par\par Heinze V. R., Kern B., and Seffner W. (1984) WELS/Fohm-ein neuer Ratteninzuchstamm. {\i Z. Versuchstierk.} {\b 26}, 1-4.\par\par Hendley E. D. and Fan X. M. (1992) Regional differences in brain norepinephrine and dopamine uptake kinetics in inbred rat strains with hypertension and or hyperactivity. {\i Brain Res.} {\b 586}, 44-52.\par\par Hendley E. D., Cierpial M. A., and MacCarthy R. (1988) Sympathetic-adrenal medullary response to stress in hyperactive and hypertensive rats. {\i Physiol. Behav.} {\b 44}, 47-51.\par\par Hendry I. A. and Bell C. (1993) Age-related-changes in tyrosine-hydroxylase and choline- acetyltransferase in sympathetic-ganglia of a rat strain with reduced sympathetic neuron numbers. {\i Journal of Neurochemistry} {\b 60}, 1093-1097.\par\par Henry G. A., Jarnot B. M., Steinhoff M. M., and Bigazzi P. E. (1988) Mercury-induced renal autoimmunity in the MAXX rat. {\i Clin. Immunol. Immunopathol.} {\b 49}, 187-203.\par\par Herdegen T., Kovary K., Buhl A., Bravo R., Zimmermann M., and Gass P. (1995) Basal expression of the inducible transcription factors C-jun, JunB, JunD, C-fos, FosB, and Krox-24 in the adult-rat brain. {\i J. Comp. Neurol.} {\b 354}, 39-56.\par\par Heslop B. F. (1968) Histocompatibility antigens in the rat: The AS2 strain in relation to the AS, BS and HS strains. {\i Aust. J. Exp. Biol. Med. Sci.} {\b 46}, 479-491.\par\par Heslop B. F. and Phelan E. L. (1973) The GH and AS hypertensive rat strains. {\i Lab. Anim.} {\b 7}, 41-46.\par\par Hess H. H., Knapke J. J., Newsome D. A., Westney I. V., and Wartofsky L. (1985) Dietary prevention of cataracts in the pink-eyed RCS rat. {\i Lab. Animal Sci.} {\b 35}, 47-53.\par\par Hill J. L. and Yu D. T. Y. (1987) Development of an expeimental animal model for reactive arthritis induced by Yersinia enterocolitica infection. {\i Infect. Immun.} {\b 55}, 721-726.\par\par Hinsull S. M. and Bellamy D. (1977) Spontaneous thymoma in an inbred strain of rat. {\i J. Natl. Cancer Inst.} {\b 58}, 1609-1614.\par\par Hirashima T., Kawano K., Mori S., Matsumoto K., and Natori T. (1995) A diabetogenic gene (Odb-1) assigned to the X-chromosome in OLETF rats. {\i Diabetes Research and Clinical Practice} {\b 27}, 91-96.\par\par Hirono I., Ogino H., Fujimoto M., Yamada K., Yoshida Y., Ikagawa M., and Okumura M. (1987) Induction of tumors in ACI rats given a diet containing ptaquiloside, a bracken carcinogen. {\i J. Natl. Cancer Inst.} {\b 79}, 1143-1149.\par\par Hjeresen D. L., Franck J. E., and Amend D. L. (1987) Ontogeny of seizure incidence, latency, and severity in genetically epilepsy prone rats. {\i Devel. Psychobiol.} {\b 20}, 355-363.\par\par Hockwin O., Wegner A., Sisk D. R., Dohrmann B., and Kruse M. (1984) Effect of AL-1576 in preventing naphthalene cataract in three rat strains. A slit lanp and scheimpflug photographic study. {\i Lens Research} {\b 2}, 321-335.\par\par Hoffman H. J. (1979) Survival distributions for selected laboratory rat strains and stocks, in {\i Development of the rodent as a model system for aging, Book II ed.} (Gibson D. C., Adelman R. C., and Finch C., eds), pp. 19-34. DREW Pub. No. (NIH) 79-161, Washington, DC. (Department of Health, Education, and Welfare; Washington, D.C.: U.S.)\par\par Hohl C. M., Hu B., Fertel R. H., Russell J. C., McCune S. A., and Altschuld R. A. (1993) Effects of obesity and hypertension on ventricular myocytes - comparison of cells from adult SHHF/Mcc-cp and JCR:LA-cp rats. {\i Cardiovascular Research} {\b 27}, 238-242.\par\par Hollander C. F. (1976) Current experience using the laboratory rat in aging studies. {\i Lab. Animal Sci.} {\b 26}, 320-328.\par\par Holmdahl R. and Kvick C. (1992) Vaccination and genetic experiments demonstrate that adjuvant-oil- induced arthritis and homologous type-II collagen-induced arthritis in the same rat strain are different diseases. {\i Clin. Exp. Immunol.} {\b 88}, 96-100.\par\par Holmdahl R., Vingsbo C., Malmstrom V., Jansson L., and Holmdahl M. (1994) Chronicity of arthritis induced with homologous type-II collagen (CII) in rats is associated with anti-CII B-cell activation. {\i Journal of Autoimmunity} {\b 7}, 739-752.\par\par Holme G. and Piechuta H. (1981) The derivation of an inbred line of rats which develop asthma-like symptoms following challenge with aerosolized antigen. {\i Immunol.} {\b 42}, 19-24.\par\par Hosaka S., Nagayama H., and Hirono I. (1984) Suppressive effect of caffeine on the development of hepatic-tumors induced by 2-acetylsminofluorene in ACI rats. {\i Gann} {\b 75}, 1058-1061.\par\par Hosszufalusi N., Reinherz L., Takei S., Chan E., and Charles M. A. (1994) Glipizide-induced prevention of diabetes and autoimmune events in the BB rat. {\i Journal of Autoimmunity} {\b 7}, 753-761.\par\par Hoversland R. C. (1992) Onset of obesity and puberty in genetically-obese SHHF/Mcc-cp rats. {\i Int. J. Obesity} {\b 16}, 977-984.\par\par Howard J. C. (1971) A histocompatible chromosome marker system in the laboratory rat Rattus norvegicus. {\i Transplant.} {\b 12}, 95-97.\par\par Hsu L. C. and Gould M. N. (1993) Cloning and characterization of overexpressed genes in the mammary- gland of rat strains carrying the mammary-carcinoma suppressor (Mcs) gene. {\i Cancer Res.} {\b 53}, 5766-5774.\par\par Hubner N., Kreutz R., Takahashi S., Ganten D., and Lindpaintner K. (1994) Unlike human hypertension, blood-pressure in a hereditary hypertensive rat strain shows no linkage to the angiotensinogen locus. {\i Hypertension} {\b 23}, 797-801.\par\par Hubner N., Kreutz R., Takahashi S., Ganten D., and Lindpaintner K. (1995) Altered angiotensinogen amino-acid-sequence and plasma angiotensin-II levels in Genetically Hypertensive rats - a study on cause and effect. {\i Hypertension} {\b 26}, 279-284.\par\par Hughes R. A. C. and Stedronska J. (1973) The susceptibility of rat strains to experimental allergic encephalomyelitis. {\i Immunol.} {\b 24}, 879-884.\par\par Hughes sj, Suzuki K., and Goto Y. (1994) The role of islet secretory function in the development of diabetes in the GK Wistar rat. {\i Diabetologia} {\b 37}, 863-870.\par\par Hulse E. V. (1979) Announcement of a new inbred strain. {\i Rat News Lett.} {\b 5}, 40.\par\par Hunt H. R., Hoppert C. A., and Rosen S. (1955) {\i Genetic factors in experimental rat caries. Pp. 66-81 in Advances in Experimental Caries Research, R. F}. Washington, D.C.: American Association for the Advancement of Science, Sognnaes, ed.\par\par Hunt S. V. and Fowler M. H. (1981) A repopulation assay for B and T lymphocyte stem cells employing radiation chimaeras. {\i Cell Tissue Kinet.} {\b 14}, 445-464.\par\par Ikadai H., Sukuma Y., Suzuki K., and Imamichi T. (1985) Congenital abnormalities of the male genital organs in the newly established TW rat strain. {\i Congenit. Anom.} {\b 25}, 65-71.\par\par Ikadai H., Fujita H., Ajisawa C., and Imamichi T. (1987) Sperm retention in the efferent duct and testicular atrophy of TE inbred rats. {\i J. Reprod. Fertil.} {\b 81}, 635-641.\par\par Ikadai H., Ajisawa C., Taya K., and Imamichi T. (1988a) Sureainguinal ectopic scrota of TS inbred rats. {\i J. Reprod. Fertil.} {\b 84}, 701-707.\par\par Ikadai H., Ajisawa C., Tsujimyura S., Watanabe G., Taya K., and Imamichi T. (1988b) A new male pseudohermaphrodite rat mutant with androgen deficiency. {\i J. Reprod. Fertil.} {\b 84}, 303-312.\par\par Ikeda H., Shino A., and Matsuo T. (1981) A new genetically obese-hyperglycemic rat (Wistar fatty). {\i Diabetes} {\b 30}, 1045-1050.\par\par Ikeda Y., Sugiyama T., Takahashi M., and Taniguchi N. (1994) Selective suppression of Igg2a subclass in LEC rats during development. {\i Biochimica Et Biophysica Acta-General Subjects} {\b 1200}, 277-280.\par\par Imaoka K., Sakaguchi M., and Inouye S. (1993) Antibody-responses against Japanese cedar pollen allergen (Cry-j-I) in different strains of rats. {\i Exp. Anim.} {\b 42}, 61-65.\par\par Imrich H., Schwender S., Hein A., and Dorries R. (1994) Cervical lymphoid-tissue but not the central-nervous-system supports proliferation of virus-specific T-lymphocytes during coronavirus- induced encephalitis in rats. {\i J. Neuroimmunol.} {\b 53}, 73-81.\par\par Inoue M., Peeters B. W. M. M., van Luijtelaar E. L. J. M., Vossen J. M. H., and Coenen A. M. L. (1990) Spontaneous occurrence of spike-wave discharges in five inbred strains of rats. {\i Physiol. Behav.} {\b 48}, 199-201.\par\par Inoue M., Ates N., Vossen J. M. H., and Coenen A. M. L. (1994) Effects of the neuroleptanalgesic fentanyl-fluanisone (Hypnorm) on spike-wave discharges in epileptic rats. {\i Pharmacol. Biochem. Behav.} {\b 48}, 547-551.\par\par Isaacs J. T. (1984) The aging ACI/Seg versus Copenhagen male rat as a model system for the study of prostatic carcinogenesis. {\i Cancer Res.} {\b 44}, 5785-5796.\par\par Isaacs J. T. (1988) Inheritance of a genetic factor from the Copenhagen rat and the suppression of chemically induced mammary adenocarcinogenesis. {\i Cancer Res.} {\b 48}, 2204-2213.\par\par Ishibashi M. (1976) "Ishibashi rat"--A new strain of rats with congenital spinal malformations. {\i Teratology} {\b 14}, 242.\par\par Ishida K., Mizuno A., Sano T., Noma Y., and Shima K. (1995) Effect of timely insulin administration on pancreatic B-cells of Otsuka-Long-Evans-Tokushima-Fatty (OLETF) strain rats - an animal- model of non-insulin-dependent diabetes-mellitus (NIDDM). {\i Hormone and Metabolic Research} {\b 27}, 398-402.\par\par Ishih A. (1992) Mucosal mast-cell response to hymenolepis-diminuta infection in different rat strains. {\i International Journal for Parasitology} {\b 22}, 1033-1035.\par\par Ishih A. (1994) Worm burden and mucosal mast-cell response in DA and F344/N rat strains infected with {\i Hymenolepis diminuta}. {\i International Journal for Parasitology} {\b 24}, 295-298.\par\par Ito N., Azuma Y., and Mori M. (1975) Experimental gingivitis: Development of a new strain of plaque-susceptible rat. {\i J. Dental Res.} {\b 54}, 425.\par\par Ito N., Shinohara M., Azuma Y., and Mori M. (1977) Experimental gingivitis in ODU plaque-susceptible rats. I. Changes of plaque formation and body weight. {\i J. Periodontol.} {\b 48}, 201-208.\par\par Ito Y., Fujie K., Matsuda S., Takahashi R., and Maeda S. (1994) Long-Evans-A and Long-Evans-C rat strains susceptible to clastogenic effects of chemicals in the bone-marrow cells. {\i Jpn. J. Cancer Res.} {\b 85}, 26-31.\par\par Ivankovic S. and Zeller W. J. (1974) Leukemia L5222 of the rat strain BDIX. {\i Blut} {\b 28}, 288-292.\par\par Iwasaki H., Ohmachi Y., Kume E., and Krieglstein J. (1995) Strain differences in vulnerability of hippocampal-neurons to transient cerebral-ischemia in the rat. {\i International Journal of Experimental Pathology} {\b 76}, 171-178.\par\par Jackson C. W., Hutson N. K., Steward S. A., Ashmun R. A., Davis D. S., Edwards H. H., Rehg J. E., and Dockter M. E. (1988) The Wistar Furth rat: an animal modlel of hereditary macrothrombocytopenia. {\i Blood} {\b 71}, 1676-1686.\par\par Jacobs B. B. and Huseby R. A. (1967) Neoplasms occurring in aged Fischer rats, with special reference to testicular, uterine, and thyroid tumours. {\i J. Natl. Cancer Inst.} {\b 39}, 303-307.\par\par Jia Y. L., Xu L. J., Heisler S., and Martin J. G. (1995) Airways of a hyperresponsive rat strain show decreased relaxant responses to sodium-nitroprusside. {\i American Journal of Physiology-Lung Cellular and Molecular Physiology} {\b 13}, L85-L91.\par\par Jobe P. C., Brown R. D., Dailey J. W., Ray T. B., Woods T. W., Mims M. E., and Barnsfather S. (1980) Effects of multiple exposures to intense acoustic stimulation on audiogenic seizure (AGS) susceptibility (S) and intensity (I) in rats. A developmental study in progeny from a genetically susceptible colony. {\i Neurosci. Abstr.} {\b 6}, 278.8.\par\par Johnson M. D. and Richmond B. K. (1992) Effect of naloxone on hypertension in Dahl salt-sensitive rats. {\i Am. J. Physiol.} {\b 262}, H162-H167.\par\par Johnson M. L., Ely D. L., and Turner M. E. (1992) Genetic-divergence between the Wistar-Kyoto rat and the Spontaneously Hypertensive Rat. {\i Hypertension} {\b 19}, 425-427.\par\par Johnston B. M. (1995) Fetal growth-retardation and increased placental weight in the Spontaneously Hypertensive Rat. {\i Reproduction Fertility and Development} {\b 7}, 639-645.\par\par Jones R. E., Bourdette D., Offner H., and Vandenbark A. A. (1992) The synthetic 87-99-peptide of myelin basic-protein is encephalitogenic in Buffalo rats. {\i J. Neuroimmunol.} {\b 37}, 203-212.\par\par Joos G. F., Kips J. C., and Pauwels R. A. (1994) In-vivo characterization of the tachykinin receptors involved in the direct and indirect bronchoconstrictor effect of tachykinins in 2 inbred rat strains. {\i American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine} {\b 149}, 1160-1166.\par\par Joseph S., Diamond A. G., Smith W., Baird J. D., and Butcher G. W. (1993) BB-DR Edinburgh - a lymphopenic, nondiabetic subline of BB rat. {\i Immunol.} {\b 78}, 318-328.\par\par Juberg D. R., Bond J. T., and Weber W. W. (1991) N-acetylation of aromatic-amines - genetic-polymorphism in inbred rat strains. {\i Pharmacogenetics} {\b 1}, 50-57.\par\par Julien C., Sacquet J., Kandza P., Su D. F., Vincent M., and Barres C. (1992) Cardiovascular habituation to emotional-stress in Lyon Hypertensive rats. {\i Clin. Exp. Pharmacol. Physiol.} {\b 19}, 187-192.\par\par Kaitz M. (1976) The effect of light on brightness perception in rats with retinal dystrophy. {\i Vision Res.} {\b 16}, 141-148.\par\par Kaitz M. and Auerbach E. (1979) Retinal degeneration in RCS rats raised under ambient light levels. {\i Vision Res.} {\b 19}, 79-81.\par\par Kallen B. and Logdberg L. (1982) Low susceptibility to the induction of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in a substrain of the otherwise susceptible Lewis rat. {\i Eur. J. Immunol.} {\b 12}, 596-599.\par\par Kanno S., Aoki Y., Suzuki J. S., Takeichi N., Misawa S., and Suzuki K. T. (1994a) Enhanced synthesis of metallothionein as a possible cause of abnormal copper accumulation in LEC rats. {\i Journal of Inorganic Biochemistry} {\b 56}, 117-125.\par\par Kanno S., Suzuki J. S., Aoki Y., and Suzuki K. T. (1994b) Selective enhancement of metallothionein messenger-RNA expression by copper in primary cultured liver parenchymal-cells of LEC rats. {\i Research Communications in Chemical Pathology and Pharmacology} {\b 84}, 153-162.\par\par Karalis K., Crofford L., Wilder R. L., and Chrousos G. P. (1995) Glucocorticoid and/or glucocorticoid antagonist effects in inflammatory disease-susceptible Lewis rats and inflammatory disease- resistant Fischer rats. {\i Endocrinol.} {\b 136}, 3107-3112.\par\par Kasai N., Kamimura A., Miyoshi I., and Ariga T. (1993) Ganglioside distribution in the liver of inbred strains of rats and the cancerous liver of LEC rats. {\i Journal of Biochemistry} {\b 113}, 251-257.\par\par Kasai T., Osaai T., Miyoshi I., Kamimura E., Yoshida M. C., and Dempo K. (1990) Clinico-pathological studies of LEC rats with hereditary hepatitis and hepatoma in the acute phase of hepatitis. {\i Lab. Animal Sci.} {\b 40}, 502-505.\par\par Kaspareit-Rittinghausen J. and Deerberg F. (1987) Diverticula of the forestomach in male BDII/Han rats. {\i Z. Versuchstierk.} {\b 30}, 229-231.\par\par Kaspareit-Rittinghausen J., Deerberg F., and Rapp K. (1987) Mortality and incidence of spontaneous neoplasms in BDII/Han rats. {\i Z. Versuchstierk.} {\b 30}, 209-216.\par\par Kaspareit-Rittinghausen J., Deerberg F., Rapp K. G., and Wcisio A. (1990) A new rat model for polycystic kidney disease in humans. {\i Transplant. Proc.} {\b 22}, 2582-2583.\par\par Kato J., Kohgo Y., Sugawara N., Katsuki S., Shintani N., Fujikawa K., Miyazaki E., Kobune M., Takeichi N., and Niitsu Y. (1993) Abnormal hepatic iron accumulation in LEC rats. {\i Jpn. J. Cancer Res.} {\b 84}, 219-222.\par\par Katoh H., Shoji Y., Yoshimura Y., and Easki K. (1986) A new variant of the Es-1 locus in the rat. {\i Lab. Anim.} {\b 20}, 158-161.\par\par Kava R., Peterson R. G., West D. B., and Greenwood M. R. C. (1990) Wistar diabetic fatty rat. {\i ILAR News} {\b 32}, 9-12.\par\par Kawano K., Hirishima T., Mori S., Abe F., Kurosumi M., and Saitoh Y. (1989) A new rat strain with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, "LETL". {\i Rat News Lett.} {\b 22}, 14-15.\par\par Kawano K., Hirashima T., Mori S., Saitoh Y., Kurosumi M., and Natori T. (1991) New inbred strain of Long-Evans Tokushima lean rats with IDDM without lymphopenia. {\i Diabetes} {\b 40}, 1375-1381.\par\par Kawano K., Hirashima T., Mori S., and Natori T. (1994) OLETF (Otsuka Long-Evans Tokushima Fatty) rat - a new NIDDM rat strain. {\i Diabetes Research and Clinical Practice} {\b 24}, S317-S320.\par\par Kelchner J., McIntosh J. R., Beedecker E., Guggenheim S., and McIntosh R. M. (1976) Experimental autologous immune deposit nephritis in rats associated with mercuric chloride administration. {\i Experientia} {\b 32}, 1204-1208.\par\par Ketchum R. J., Moore W. V., and Hegre O. D. (1992) Increased islet allograft survival after extended culture by a mechanism other than depletion of donor apcs - lack of correlation between the elimination of donor MHC class-II-positive accessory cells and increased transplantability. {\i Transplant.} {\b 54}, 347-351.\par\par Kim U., Clifton K. H., and Furth J. (1960) A highly inbred strain of Wistar rats yielding spontaneous mammo-somatotropic pituitary and other tumors. {\i J. Natl. Cancer Inst.} {\b 24}, 1031-1055.\par\par Kitano M., Hatano H., and Shisa H. (1992) Strain difference of susceptibility to 4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide- induced tongue carcinoma in rats. {\i Jpn. J. Cancer Res.} {\b 83}, 843-850.\par\par Kitaoka A. (1994) Defensive aspects of burrowing behavior in rats ({\i Rattus-norvegicus}) - a descriptive and correlational study. {\i Behavioural Processes} {\b 31}, 13-27.\par\par Kitareewan S. and Walz F. G. (1994) Genetic and developmental diversity of hepatic cytochromes-P450 -warfarin and progesterone metabolism by hepatic microsomes from 4 inbred strains of rat. {\i Drug Metab. Disp.} {\b 22}, 607-615.\par\par Klassen J., Sugisaki T., Milgrom F., and McCluskey R. T. (1971) Studies on multiple renal lesions in Heymann nephritis. {\i Lab. Invest.} {\b 25}, 577-585.\par\par Kloting I., Vgt L., Stark O., and Fischer U. (1987) Genetic heterogeneity in different BB rat subpopulations. {\i Diabet. Res.} {\b 6}, 145-149.\par\par Kloting I., Voigt B., and Vogt L. (1995) Molecular analysis of diabetes-prone BB rat sublines and derivatives of their common ancestor as a tool to search for candidate loci causing different phenotypes in BB rats. {\i Diabet. Res.} {\b 29}, 65-71.\par\par Kluge R., Hedrich H. J., and von Deimling O. (1990) Genetic variation and biochemical properties of esterase-18 (Es-18) in the laboratory rat ({\i Rattus norvegicus}): a new locus of esterase cluster 2 in linkage group V. {\i Biochem. Genet.} {\b 28}, 57-68.\par\par Knardahl S. and Hendley E. D. (1990) Association between cardiovascular reactivity to stress and hypertension or behavior. {\i Am. J. Physiol. (Heart Circ. Physiol.)} {\b 28}, H248-H257.\par\par Knox W. E. (1977) Strains/stocks/mutants held. {\i Rat News Lett.} {\b 1}, 26-27.\par\par Koch C. (1976) Genetic control of antibody responses to PHA in inbred rats. {\i Scand.J. Immunol.} {\b 5}, 1149-1153.\par\par Koga T., Pearson C. M., Narita T., and Kotani S. (1973) Polyarthritis induced in the rat with cell walls from several bacteria and two Streptomyces species. {\i Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med.} {\b 143}, 824-827.\par\par Kojima T., Tanaka T., and Mori H. (1994) Chemoprevention of spontaneous endometrial cancer in female Donryu rats by dietary indole-3-carbinol. {\i Cancer Res.} {\b 54}, 1446-1449.\par\par Kondo Y. and Yamada J. (1983) Male urinary protein-1 (Mup-1) expression in the female rat. {\i J. Hered.} {\b 74}, 280-282.\par\par Kondo Y., Homma Y., Aso Y., and Kakizoe T. (1994) Promotional effect of 2-generation exposure to a high-fat diet on prostate carcinogenesis in ACI/Seg rats. {\i Cancer Res.} {\b 54}, 6129-6132.\par\par Kong J. Q., Curto K. A., Fleming W. W., Kotchen T. A., and Taylor D. A. (1991) Catecholamine and neuropeptide-y levels in tissues from young Dahl rats following 5 days low-salt or high-salt diet. {\i Blood Vessels} {\b 28}, 442-451.\par\par Koritnik D. R., Koshy A., and Hoversland R. C. (1995) 17-beta-estradiol treatment increases the levels of estrogen-receptor and its messenger-RNA in male-rat liver. {\i Steroids} {\b 60}, 519-529.\par\par Kosten T. A., Miserendino M. J. D., Chi S., and Nestler E. J. (1994) Fischer and Lewis rat strains show differential cocaine effects in conditioned place preference and behavioral sensitization but not in locomotor-activity or conditioned taste-aversion. {\i J. Pharmacol. Exp. Therapeut.} {\b 269}, 137-144.\par\par Kosuda L. L., Hosseinzadeh H., Greiner D. L., and Bigazzi P. E. (1994) Role of RT6(+) T-lymphocytes in mercury-induced renal autoimmunity -experimental manipulations of susceptible and resistant rats. {\i J. Toxicol. Environ. Health} {\b 42}, 303-321.\par\par Kovacs P., Voigt B., Berg S., Vogt L., and Kloting I. (1997) WOK.1W rats: A potential animal model of the insulin resistance syndrome. {\i Ann. NY Acad. Sci.} {\b 827}, 94-100.\par\par Kranzlin B., Schieren G., and Gretz N. (1997) Azotemia and extrarenal manifestations in old female Han:SPRD ({\i cy/+}) rats. {\i Kidney International} {\b 51}, 1160-1169.\par\par Kreisberg J. I. and Karnovsky M. J. (1978) Focal glomerular sclerosis in the fawn-hooded rat. {\i Am. J. Pathol.} {\b 92}, 637-652.\par\par Kren V., Krenova D., and Stark O. (1970a) Properties of sarcomas induced by ferridextran Spofa in the inbred rat strain AVN. I. Transplantability of fedex-AVN tumours in vivo and karyological and morphological properties of the cell line after explantation in vitro. {\i Neoplasma} {\b 17}, 329-337.\par\par Kren V., Krenova D., and Stark O. (1970b) Runt syndrome incidence and skin graft tolerance in various interstrain combinations of rats differing at a single or multiple histocompatibility loci. {\i Folia Biol.} {\b 16}, 305-313.\par\par Kudo L. H., Hawk C. T., and Schafer J. A. (1994) Sodium and water transport in cortical collecting duct of Dahl salt- resistant rat. {\i American Journal of Physiology-Renal Fluid and Electrolyte Physiology} {\b 36}, F583-F591.\par\par Kulikov A., Castanon N., Mormede P., and Chaouloff F. (1995) Cerebral tryptophan-hydroxylase activity, and 5-ht1a receptor, 5- ht2a, receptor, and 5-ht transporter binding in grouped and isolated Roman RHA and RLA rats - relationships with behaviors in 2 models of anxiety. {\i Psychopharmacology} {\b 121}, 385-395.\par\par Kunstyr I., Naumann S., and Werner J. (1982) Urolithiasis in female inbred SPF rats. Possible predisposition of DA and ACI strains. {\i Z. Versuchstierk.} {\b 24}, 214-218.\par\par Kunz H. W. and Gill T. J. III (1974) Genetic studies in inbred rats. I. Two new histocompatibility aIleles. {\i J. Immunogenet.} {\b 1}, 413-420.\par\par Kunz H. W. and Gill III T. J. (1978) Red blood cell alloantigenic systems in the rat. {\i Immunogenet.} {\b 5}, 365-382.\par\par Kunz H. W., Gill T. J. III, and Borland B. (1974) The genetic linkage of the immune response of poly (Glu52Lys33Tyr15) to the major histocompatibility locus in inbred rats. {\i J. Immunogenet.} {\b 1}, 277-287.\par\par Kunz H. W., Cramer D. V., and Gill T. J. III (1987a) Announcement. {\i Rat News Lett.} {\b 18}, 19-21.\par\par Kunz H. W., Cramer D. V., and Gill III T. J. (1987b) Contribution. {\i Rat News Lett.} {\b 18}, 19-21.\par\par Kuribayashi Y., Mizuta T., Shimoo K., Kubota K., Katsume H., Nakagawa M., and Ibata Y. (1988) Spontaneously occurring hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in the rat. {\i Jpn. Circ. J.} {\b 52}, 1156-1170.\par\par Kurtz T. W. and Morris R. C. Jr. (1987) Biological variability in Wistar-Kyoto rats. Implications for research with the spontaneously hypertensive rat. {\i Hypertension} {\b 10}, 127-131.\par\par Kurtz T. W., Montano M., Chan L., and Kabra P. (1989) Molecular evidence of genetic heterogeneity in Wistar-Kyoto rats: implications for research with the spontaneously hypertensive rat. {\i Hypertension} {\b 13}, 188-192.\par\par Lai Y.-L., Jacoby R. O., and Yao P. C. (1979) Peripheral retinal degeneration in rats. {\i Am. J. Pathol.} {\b 97}, 449-452.\par\par Lai Y.-L., Jacoby R. O., Jensen J. T., and Yao P. C. (1980) Retinitis pigmentosa. {\i Am. J. Pathol.} {\b 98}, 281-284.\par\par Larueachagiotis C., Goubern M., Laury M. C., and Louissylvestre J. (1994) Energy-balance in an inbred strain of rats - comparison with the Wistar strain. {\i Physiol. Behav.} {\b 55}, 483-487.\par\par LaVail M. M. and Battelle B. (1975) Influence of eye pigmentation and light deprivation on inherited retinal dystrophy in the rat. {\i Exp. Eye Res.} {\b 21}, 167-192.\par\par LaVail M. M., Sidman R. L., and Gerhardt C. O. (1975) Congenic strains of RCS rats with inherited retinal dystrophy. {\i J. Hered.} {\b 66}, 242-244.\par\par Leav I., Ho S.-M., Ofner P., Merk F. B., Kwan Pw-L., and Damassa D. (1988) Biochemical alterations in the sex hormone-induced hyperplasia and dysplasia of the dorsolateral prostates of Noble rats. {\i J. Natl. Cancer Inst.} {\b 80}, 1045-1053.\par\par Leav I., Merk F. B., Kwan Pw-L., and Ho S.-M. (1989) Androgen-supported estrogen-enhanced epithelial proliferation in the prostates of intact Noble rats. {\i Prostate} {\b 15}, 23-40.\par\par Ledingham J. M. and Millar J. A. (1993) Stereological studies on mesenteric resistance artery structure in New-Zealand Genetically Hypertensive and control rats. {\i Clin. Exp. Pharmacol. Physiol.} {\b 20}, 359-361.\par\par Ledingham J. M., Phelan E. L., and Millar J. A. (1993) Effects of cilazapril on the structure of mesenteric resistance arteries of New-Zealand Genetically Hypertensive and normotensive control rats. {\i Clin. Exp. Pharmacol. Physiol.} {\b 20}, 362-364.\par\par Leenaerts P. L., Stad R. K., Hall B. M., Vandamme B. J., Vanrenterghem Y., and Daha M. R. (1994) Hereditary C6 deficiency in a strain of PVG/c rats. {\i Clin. Exp. Immunol.} {\b 97}, 478-482.\par\par Lehman T. J. A., Allen J. B., Plotz P. H., and Wilder R. L. (1983) Polyarthritis in rats following the systemic injection of Lactobacilus casei cell walls in aqueous suspension. {\i Arthritis Rheum.} {\b 26}, 1259-1265.\par\par Lehman T. J. A., Allen J. B., Plotz P. H., and Wilder R. L. (1984) Lactobacillus-casei cell wall-induced arthritis in rats. Cell-wall fragment distribution and persistence in chronic arthritis-susceptible LEW/N and arthritis-resistant F344/N rats. {\i Arthritis Rheum.} {\b 27}, 939-942.\par\par Lejossec M., Cloix J. F., and Dausse J. P. (1995a) Distribution of 2 alpha(2)beta-adrenoceptor isoforms in renal-cortex of salt-sensitive (SBH) and salt-resistant (SBN) Sabra rats - salt loading effect. {\i Archives Des Maladies Du Coeur Et Des Vaisseaux} {\b 88}, 1229-1232.\par\par Lejossec M., Trivalle C., Cloix J. F., Pecquery R., Giudicelli Y., and Dausse J. P. (1995b) Differential distribution of alpha(2)-adrenoceptor subtypes and messenger-RNA expression between renal-cortex of Salt-Sensitive and Salt-Resistant Sabra rats. {\i J. Hypertens.} {\b 13}, 781-790.\par\par Lennon V. A., Lindstrom J. M., and Seybold M. E. (1975) Experimental autoimmune myasthenia: A model of myasthenia gravis in rats and guinea pigs. {\i J. Exp. Med.} {\b 141}, 1365-1375.\par\par Leung C., Bergmann B. M., Rechtschaffen A., and Benca R. M. (1992) Heritability of dark pulse triggering of paradoxical sleep in rats. {\i Physiol. Behav.} {\b 52}, 127-131.\par\par Levine S. and Sowinski R. (1970) Allergic inflammation, infarction and induced localization in the testes. {\i Am. J. Pathol.} {\b 59}, 437-451.\par\par Levine S. and Sowinski R. (1975) Allergic encephalomyelitis in the reputedly resistant Brown Norway strain of rats. {\i J. Immunol.} {\b 114}, 597-601.\par\par Levine S. and Wenk E. J. (1968) The production and transfer of allergic adrenalitis. {\i Am. J. Pathol.} {\b 52}, 41-53.\par\par Levy A. E. and Alexander J. W. (1995) Administration of intragraft interleukin-4 prolongs cardiac allograft survival in rats treated with donor-specific transfusion/cyclosporine. {\i Transplant.} {\b 60}, 405-406.\par\par Leyten R., Vroemen J. P. A. M., Blanckaert N., and Heirwegh K. P. M. (1986) The congenic normal R/Apfd and jaundiced R/Apfd-j/j rat strains - a new animal-model of hereditary non-hemolytic unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia due to defective bilirubin conjugation. {\i Lab. Anim.} {\b 20}, 335-342.\par\par Liang B. and Blizard D. A. (1978) Central and peripheral norepinephrine concentrations in rat strains selectively bred for differences in response to stress: Confirmation and extension. Pharmacol. Biochem. {\i Behav.} {\b 8}, 75-80.\par\par Lin W.-L. and Essner E. (1988) Retinal dystrophy in Wistar-Furth rats. {\i Exp. Eye Res.} {\b 46}, 1-12.\par\par Lindsey S., Nichols C. W. Jr., and Chaikoff I. L. (1968) Naturally occurring thyroid carcinoma in the rat. Similarities to human medullary carcinoma. {\i Arch. Pathol.} {\b 86}, 353-364.\par\par Linington C., Mann A., Izumo S., Uyemura K., Suzuki M., Meyermann R., and Wekerle H. (1986) Induction of experimental allergic neuritis in the BN rat: P2 protein-specific T cells overcome resistance to actively induced disease. {\i J. Immunol.} {\b 137}, 3826-3831.\par\par Lolley R. N. and Farber D. B. (1975) Cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterases in dystrophic rat retinas: Guanosine 3,,5, cyclic monophosphate anomalies during photoreceptor cell degeneration. {\i Exp. Eye Res.} {\b 20}, 585-597.\par\par Lolley R. N. and Farber D. B. (1976) A proposed link between debris accumulation, guanosine 3', 5' cyclic monophosphate changes and photoreceptor cell degeneratation in retina of ECS rats. {\i Exp. Eye Res.} {\b 22}, 477-486.\par\par Lortet S., Heckmann M., Aussedat J., Ray A., Vincent M., Sassard J., Zimmer H. G., and Rossi A. (1993) Alteration of cardiac energy-state during development of hypertension in rats of the Lyon strain - a p-31-NMR study on the isolated rat- heart. {\i Acta Physiologica Scandinavica} {\b 149}, 311-321.\par\par Lovell D. P. and Sparrow S. (1984) Congenital taillessness in AGUS inbred rats. {\i Lab. Anim.} {\b 18}, 15-19.\par\par Lovell D. P., Archer R. K., Riley J., and Morgan R. K. (1981) Variation in haematological parameters among inbred strains. {\i Lab. Anim.} {\b 15}, 243-249.\par\par Lubaroff D. M., Caufield L., Feldbush T. L., and Bonney W. W. (1977) R 3327 Adenocarcinoma of the Copenhagen rat as a model for the study of the immunologic aspects of prostate cancer. {\i J. Natl. Cancer Inst.} {\b 58}, 1677-1689.\par\par Lubaroff D. M., Rasmussen G. T., and Hunt H. D. (1979) Comparative studies of T-lymphocyte antigens in the rat: Are ART, Ly, Pta and Ag-F the same? {\i Transplant. Proc.} {\b 11}, 1642-1645.\par\par Lubaroff D. M., Hunt H. D., and Rasmussen G. T. (1985) Evidence from capping experiments for independence of the RT7 alloantigen and the leucocyte common antigen in the rat. {\i J. Immunogenet.} {\b 12}, 239-245.\par\par Luderer A. A., Maurer P. H., and Woodland R. T. (1976) Genetic control of the immune response in rats to the known sequential polypeptide (Tyr-Glu-Ala-Gly)n. I. Antibody responses. {\i J. Immunol.} {\b 117}, 1079-1084.\par\par Luijtelaar E. and Coenen A. M. L. (1986) Two types of electrocortical paroxysms in an inbred strain of rats. {\i Neurosci. Let.} {\b 70}, 393-397.\par\par Maekawa A. and Odashima S. (1975) Spontaneous tumours in ACI/N rats. {\i J. Natl. Cancer Inst.} {\b 55}, 1437-1445.\par\par Maekawa A., Kurokawa Y., Takahashi M., Kokubo T., Ogiu T., Odonera H., Tanigawa H., Ohono Y., Furikawa F., and Hayashi Y. (1983) Spontaneous tumors in F344/DuCr rats. {\i Gann} {\b 74}, 365-372.\par\par Maekawa A., Onodera H., Tanigawa H., Furuta K., Matsuoka C., Kanno J., Ogiu T., and Hayashi Y. (1986) Spontaneous neoplastic and non-neoplastic lesions in aging Donryu rats. {\i Jpn. J. Cancer Res.} {\b 77}, 882-890.\par\par Magro A., Bizios R., Catalfamo J., Blumenstock F., and Rudofsky U. (1992) Collagen-induced rat platelet reactivity is enhanced in whole-blood in both the presence and absence of dense granule secretion. {\i Thrombosis Research} {\b 68}, 345-356.\par\par Majima M., Adachi K., Kuribayashi Y., Mizogami S., and Katori M. (1995a) Increase in vascular sensitivity to angiotensin-II and norepinephrine after 4-day infusion of 0.3 m sodium-chloride in conscious kininogen- deficient Brown-Norway Katholiek rats. {\i Jpn. J. Pharmacol.} {\b 69}, 149-158.\par\par Majima M., Ikeda Y., Kuribayashi Y., Mizogami S., Katori M., and Aoyagi T. (1995b) Ebelactone-B, an inhibitor of urinary carboxypeptidase-y-like kininase, prevents the development of deoxycorticosterone acetate salt hypertension in rats. {\i Eur. J. Pharmacol.} {\b 284}, 1-11.\par\par Male D. K., Pryce G., and Butcher G. W. (1987) Serological evidence for a defect in RT1.B (I-A) expression by the BDIX rat strain. {\i J. Immunogenet.} {\b 14}, 301-312.\par\par Manger W. M., Gifford J. R. W., and Hoffman B. B. (1985) Pheochromocytoma: a clinical and experimental overview. {\i Curr. Probl. Cancer} {\b 9}, 1-89.\par\par Mardones J. and Segovia-Riquelme N. (1983) Thirty-two years of selection of rats by ethanol preference: UChA and UChB strains. {\i Neurobehav. Toxicol. Teratol.} {\b 5}, 171-178.\par\par Marit G. B., Young S. M., and Hadick C. L. (1995) Anatomic and physiological characterization of the WF/Pmwp-fz (fuzzy) rat. {\i Lab. Animal Sci.} {\b 45}, 184-190.\par\par Martin J. R. (1979) Increased exploratory efficiency in a complex maze at estrus. {\i Experientia} {\b 35}, 923.\par\par Masuda A., Fukami H., Tatematsu M., and Matsuyama M. (1992) Abnormal increase in multinuclear macrophages in primary cultures of BUF/Mna rat thymomas. {\i Virchows Archiv B-Cell Pathology Including Molecular Pathology} {\b 62}, 125-132.\par\par Matsukawa N., Nonaka Y., Higaki J., Nagano M., Mikami H., Ogihara T., and Okamoto M. (1993) Dahls salt-resistant normotensive rat has mutations in cytochrome- P450(11-beta), but the salt-sensitive hypertensive rat does not. {\i J. Biol. Chem.} {\b 268}, 9117-9121.\par\par Matsumoto K. and Yamada J. (1988) Genetic profiles of rats {\i Rattus norvegicus} in Japan. {\i Rat News Lett.} {\b 20}, 3-8.\par\par Matsuyama M., Yamada C., and Hiai H. (1986) A single dominant susceptible gene determined spontaneous development of thymoma in BUF/Mna rat. {\i Gann} {\b 77}, 1066-1068.\par\par Matsuyama M., Matsuyama T., Ogiu T., and Kojima A. (1988) Nodular development of spontaneous epithelial thymoma in (ACI/NMs x BUF/Mna)F1 rats. {\i Gann} {\b 79}, 1031-1038.\par\par Matthies E. and Ponsold W. (1973) Zur \'86bertragung der Resistenz gegen Impftumoren bei Ratten. {\i Z. Krebsforsch.} {\b 80}, 27-30.\par\par Mayomichelson L. and Young G. A. (1993a) EEG, EEG power spectral, and behavioral-differences in response to acute ethylketocyclazocine administration in 2 inbred rat strains. {\i Brain Res. Bull.} {\b 31}, 345-351.\par\par Mayomichelson L. and Young G. A. (1993b) Genetic profiles of morphine-induced EEG, EEG power spectra, and behavior in 2 inbred rat strains. {\i Brain Res. Bull.} {\b 30}, 79-84.\par\par McCarty R., Cierpial M. A., Murphy C. A., Lee J. H., and Fieldsokotcha C. (1992) Maternal involvement in the development of cardiovascular phenotype. {\i Experientia} {\b 48}, 315-322.\par\par McCune S. A., Baker P. B., and Stills J. H. F. (1990) SHHF/Mcc-cp rat: model of obesity, non-insulin-dependent diabestes, and congestive heart failure. {\i ILAR News} {\b 32}, 23-27.\par\par McFarlin D. E., Hsu S. C.-L., Slemenda S. B., Chou S. C.-H., and Kibler and R. F. (1975a) The immune response against an encephalitogenic fragment of guinea pig basic protein in the Lewis and Brown Norway strains of rat. {\i J. Immunol.} {\b 115}, 1456-1458.\par\par McFarlin D. E., Hsu S. C., Slemender S. B., Chou F. C., and Kibler R. F. (1975b) The immune response against myelin basic protein in two strains of rat with different genetic capacity to develop experimental allergic encephalomyelitis. {\i J. Exp. Med.} {\b 141}, 72-81.\par\par Medeiros I. A., Vincent M., Benzoni D., and Sassard J. (1992) Pressure independence of renin release by isolated kidneys of Lyon Hypertensive rats. {\i Hypertension} {\b 19}, 582-588.\par\par Medeiros I. A., Zhang B. L., Bertolino S., and Sassard J. (1994) Pressure control of renal renin release in Lyon Hypertensive rats. {\i J. Hypertens.} {\b 12}, 871-877.\par\par Meehan S. M. and Schechter M. D. (1994) Conditioned place preference aversion to fenfluramine in Fawn-Hooded and Sprague-Dawley rats. {\i Progress in Neuro-Psychopharmacology & Biological Psychiatry} {\b 18}, 575-584.\par\par Mekler J., Yagil Y., and Ben-Ishay D. (1985) Renal response to acute saline loading in Sabra hypertension-prone and -resistant rats. {\i Experientia} {\b 41}, 923-925.\par\par Melville A., Hodge J. V., and Smirk F. H. (1966) Tissue catecholamine levels in normotensive, genetic hypertensive and renal hypertensive rats. {\i Proc. Univ. Otago Med. Sch.} {\b 44}, 17-19.\par\par Mennander A., Tiisala S., Ustinov J., Raisanen A., Paavonen T., and Hayry P. (1992) Chronic rejection of rat aortic allografts .3. Synthesis of major eicosanoids by vascular wall components and effect of inhibition of the thromboxane cascade. {\i Arteriosclerosis and Thrombosis} {\b 12}, 1380-1386.\par\par Michaelis O. E., Velasquez M. T., Abraham A. A., Servetnick D. A., Scholfield D. J., and Hansen C. T. (1995) Development and characteristics of a new strain of obese hyperinsulinemic and hyperlipidemic Dahl salt-sensitive rat - the Dahl salt-sensitive/NIH-corpulent rat. {\i AJH} {\b 8}, 467-473.\par\par Michaelis IV O. E. and Hansen C. T. (1990) The spontaneously hypertensive/NIH-corpulent rat: a new rodent model for the study of non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus and its complications. {\i ILAR News} {\b 32}, 19-22.\par\par Michie hj, Jahoda C. A. B., Oliver R. F., and Johnson B. E. (1991) The DEBR rat- an animal model of human alopecia areata. {\i Brit. J. Dermatol.} {\b 125}, 94-100.\par\par Milman H. A., Peckham J. C., Ward J. M., and Tyranny R. E. (1979) Reduction of the severity of nephropathy in aging Fischer 344 rats treated with analogs of arylsulfonylurea. {\i Toxicol. Appl. Pharmacol.} {\b 49}, 425-430.\par\par Miranda M., Bartoli G., Ragnelli A. M., Cittadini A., Palozza P., Aimola P., Zarivi O., and Bonfigli A. (1992) Copper deficiency and pigmentation in the rat - morphofunctional aspects. {\i Journal of Submicroscopic Cytology and Pathology} {\b 24}, 273-279.\par\par Miyamoto M. and Takisawa S. (1975) Brief communication: Colon carcinoma of highly inbred rats. {\i J. Natl. Cancer Inst.} {\b 55}, 1471-1472.\par\par Miyoshi E., Jain S. K., Sugiyama T., Fujii J., Hayashi N., Fusamoto H., Kamada T., and Taniguchi N. (1993a) Expression of DNA methyltransferase in LEC rats during hepatocarcinogenesis. {\i Carcinogenesis} {\b 14}, 603-605.\par\par Miyoshi E., Nishikawa A., Ihara Y., Gu J. G., Sugiyama T., Hayashi N., Fusamoto H., Kamada T., and Taniguchi N. (1993b) N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase-III and N- acetylglucosaminyltransferase-V messenger-RNA levels in LEC rats during hepatocarcinogenesis. {\i Cancer Res.} {\b 53}, 3899-3902.\par\par Moloney W. C., Boschetti A. E., and King V. (1969) Observations on leukemia in Wistar Furth rats. {\i Cancer Res.} {\b 29}, 938-946.\par\par Moloney W. C., Boschetti A. E., and King V. P. (1970) Spontaneous leukemia in Fischer rats. {\i Cancer Res.} {\b 30}, 41-43.\par\par Molteni A., Nickerson P. A., Gallant S., and Brownie A. C. (1975) Resistance of W/Fu rats to adrenal regeneration hypertension. {\i Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med.} {\b 150}, 80-84.\par\par Morabito E., Corsico N., and Martelli E. A. (1994) Endothelins urinary-excretion is increased in spontaneously diabetic rats - BB/BB. {\i Life Sciences} {\b 56}, PL13-PL18.\par\par Mordes J. P., Desemone J., and Rossini A. A. (1987) The BB rat. {\i Diab. Metab. Rev.} {\b 3}, 725-750.\par\par Morgan K., Reevestephenson J. O., Denton J., and Freemont A. J. (1992) Type-II collagen induced arthritis - comparison of histological- changes in arthritis-susceptible and arthritis-resistant rats. {\i Clinical and Experimental Rheumatology} {\b 10}, 109-116.\par\par Mori M., Hattori A., Sawaki M., Tsuzuki N., Sawada N., Oyamada M., Sugawara N., and Enomoto K. (1994) The LEC rat - a model for human hepatitis, liver-cancer, and much more. {\i Am. J. Pathol.} {\b 144}, 200-204.\par\par Moriame M., Beckers A., and Bazin H. (1977) Decrease in the incidence of malignant ileo-caecal immunocytome in LOU/C rats after surgical removal of the ileo-caecal lymph nodes. {\i Cancer Lett.} {\b 3}, 139-143.\par\par Morris H. P. and Slaughter L. J. (1979) Development, growth rate, degree of malignancy and chromosome pattern of Morris transplantable hepatomas. {\i J. Toxicol. Environ. Health} {\b 5}, 433-452.\par\par Morris H. P. and Wagner B. P. (1968) Induction and transplantation of rat hepatomas with different growth rate (including "minimal deviation" hepatomas). {\i Meth. Cancer Res.} {\b 4}, 125-178.\par\par Morris H. P., Wagner B. P., and Meranze D. R. (1970) Transplantable adenocarcinomas of the rat kidney possessing different growth rates. {\i Cancer Res.} {\b 30}, 1362-1369.\par\par Mostaricastojkovic M., Vukmanovic S., Ramic Z., and Lukic M. L. (1992) Evidence for target tissue regulation of resistance to the induction of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis in AO rats. {\i J. Neuroimmunol.} {\b 41}, 97-104.\par\par Mullen R. J. and LaVail M. M. (1976) Inherited retinal dystrophy: Primary defect in pigment epithelium determined with experimental rat chimeras. {\i Science} {\b 192}, 799-801.\par\par Muller D., Molinari I., Soldati L., and Bianchi G. (1995) A genetic deficiency in calpastatin and isovalerylcarnitine treatment is associated with enhanced hippocampal long-term potentiation. {\i Synapse} {\b 19}, 37-45.\par\par Murakumo Y., Takahashi M., Arakawa A., Saito M., Amo H., Katoh H., and Matsuyama M. (1993) Chromosomal mapping of genetic-locus associated with thymus-size enlargement in BUF/Mna rats. {\i Jpn. J. Cancer Res.} {\b 84}, 838-840.\par\par Murakumo Y., Takahashi M., Hayashi N., Taguchi M., Arakawa A., Sharma N., Sakata K., Saito M., Amo H., Katoh H., and Matsuyama M. (1995) Linkage of the athymic nude locus with the myeloperoxidase locus in the rat. {\i Pathology International} {\b 45}, 261-265.\par\par Muramatsu Y., Agui T., Sakai T., Yamada T., and Matsumoto K. (1995) The diversity of T-cell receptor repertoire of peripheral CD4(+) lymphocytes in LEC mutant rats. {\i Immunology Letters} {\b 45}, 173-177.\par\par Murphy G., Dalchau R., Parker K. E., Sawyer G. J., Carter C. A., and Fabre J. W. (1994) T-cell recognition of an allogeneic RT1-db{\up4 u} class-II MHC peptide. {\i Immunology Letters} {\b 41}, 195-199.\par\par Murphy S. M., Brown S., Miklos H., and Fireman P. (1974) Reagin synthesis in inbred strains of rats. {\i Immunol.} {\b 27}, 245-253.\par\par Murray A. B., Schaffer E., Nussel M., and Luz A. (1985) Incidence, morphology, and ultrastructure of spontaneous thymoma-the most common neoplasm in W/Nhg rats. {\i J. Natl. Cancer Inst.} {\b 75}, 369-375.\par\par Mussener A., Klareskog L., Lorentzen J. C., and Kleinau S. (1995) Tnf-alpha dominates cytokine messenger-RNA expression in lymphoid- tissues of rats developing collagen-induced and oil-induced arthritis. {\i Scand.J. Immunol.} {\b 42}, 128-134.\par\par Nagaoka A. and Lovenberg W. (1977) Regional changes in the activities of aminergic biosynthetic enzymes in the brains of hypertensive rats. {\i Eur. J. Pharmacol.} {\b 43}, 297-306.\par\par Nagaoka A., Iwatsuka H., Suzuoki A., and Oksmoto K. (1976) Genetic predisposition to stroke in spontaneously hypertensive rats. {\i Am. J. Physiol.} {\b 230}, 1354-1359.\par\par Nagaoka T., Takeuchi M., Onodera H., Matsushima Y., Jin A. L., and Maekawa A. (1994) Sequential observation of spontaneous endometrial adenocarcinoma development in DONRYU rats. {\i Toxicologic Pathology} {\b 22}, 261-269.\par\par Naito I., Kagawa M., Sado Y., and Okigaki T. (1991) Strain specific responses of inbred rats on the severity of experimental autoimmune glomerulonephritis - presence of a broad- spectrum of the susceptibility. {\i International Journal of Immunopathology and Pharmacology} {\b 4}, 145-154.\par\par Nakajima M., Kato J., Kohgo Y., Katsuki S., Inui N., Ohya M., Takeichi N., and Niitu Y. (1993) Abnormal ethanol-metabolism in Long-Evans Cinnamon rats, a mutant strain developing spontaneous hepatoma. {\i Alcohol and Alcoholism} {\b 28}, 105-108.\par\par Nakima K., Schichiohe K., Kobayashi K., Naito K., Uchida O., Yasuhara K., and Tobe M. (1985) Spontaneous diabetes-like syndrome in WBN/Kob rats. {\i Acta diabetol. lat.} {\b 22}, 335-342.\par\par Narayan P., McCune S. A., Robitaille P. M. L., Hohl C. M., and Altschuld R. A. (1995) Mechanical alterations and the force-frequency-relationship in failing rat hearts. {\i J. Molec. Cell. Cardiol.} {\b 27}, 523-530.\par\par Natori T. (1987) The RT1 haplotype of the NIG III/Hok strain of rats. {\i Rat News Lett.} {\b 18}, 12-13.\par\par Natori T., Tsuchimoto S., Mizuno K., Matsuno Y., Niiyama T., and Aizawa M. (1986) A new inbred strain (WIN) with an intra-RT1 recombination. {\i Rat News Lett.} {\b 16}, 4-5.\par\par Natori T., Matsumoto K., Agui T., and Yamada Y. (1989a) Which strains to use? {\i Rat News Lett.} {\b 22}, 19-20.\par\par Natori T., Matsumoto K., and Yamada Y. (1989b) Distributions of RT1.A/.E and RT2 antigen specificities among inbred strains of rats in Japan. {\i Rat News Lett.} {\b 21}, 27-30.\par\par Neal R. A. and Harris W. G. (1975) Attempts to infect inbred strains of rats and mice with Entamoeba histolytica. {\i Trans. R. Soc. Trop. Med. Hyg.} {\b 69}, 429-430.\par\par Nederbragt H. and Lagerwerf A. J. (1986) Strain-related patterns of biliary excretion and hepatic distribution of copper in the rat. {\i Hepatology} {\b 6}, 601-607.\par\par Neill L. A. (1991) LOU/M rats dvelop cerebral malaria when inoculated with Plasmodium beraghei ANKA. {\i Rat News Lett.} {\b 24}, 7-9.\par\par Ng B., Lenert J. T., Weksler B., Port J. L., Ellis J. L., and Burt M. E. (1995) Isolated lung perfusion with FUDR is an effective treatment for colorectal adenocarcinoma lung metastases in rats. {\i Annals of Thoracic Surgery} {\b 59}, 205-208.\par\par Nicholls S. M., Benylles A., Shimeld C., Easty D. L., and Hill T. J. (1994) Ocular infection with herpes-simplex virus in several strains of rat. {\i Investigative Ophthalmology & Visual Science} {\b 35}, 3260-3267.\par\par Noble B., Yoshida T., Rose N. R., and Bigazzi P. E. (1976) Thyroid antibodies in spontaneous autoimmune thyroiditis in the Buffalo rat. {\i J. Immunol.} {\b 117}, 1447-1455.\par\par Noda A., Hashizume R., Maihara T., Ito Y., Inoue M., Kobayashi K., Asano Y., Sasa M., and Serikawa T. (1998) NER rat strain: a new type of genetic model in epilepsy research. {\i Epilepsia} {\b 39}, 99-107.\par\par Noda A., Hashizume R., Tomizawa Y., Ito M., Inoue Y., Asano M., and Serikawa T. (submitted) NER (Noda Epileptic Rat), a new type of genetic model in epileptic research. {\i Epilepsia} {\b submitted}.\par\par Noguchi J., Ajisawa C., Ikadai H., and Imamichi T. (1990) Ragged- a new rexoid mutant rat with large sebacious gland. {\i Exp. Animals (Japan)} {\b 39}, 383-388.\par\par Odashima S. (1964) Establishment of ascites hepatomas in the rat, 1951-1962. {\i Natl. Cancer Inst. Monogr.} {\b 16}, 51-93.\par\par Ogasawara H., Mitsumori K., Onodera H., Imazawa T., Shibutani M., Takahashi M., Ward J. M., and Maekawa A. (1993) Spontaneous histiocytic sarcoma with possible origin from the bone- marrow and lymph-node in Donryu and F344 rats. {\i Toxicologic Pathology} {\b 21}, 63-70.\par\par Ohbu K., Kaskel F. J., Kinoshita S., and Felder R. A. (1995) Dopamine-1 receptors in the proximal convoluted tubule of Dahl rats - defective coupling to adenylate-cyclase. {\i American Journal of Physiology-Regulatory Integrative and Comparative Physiology} {\b 37}, R231-R235.\par\par Ohgaki H., Kawachi T., Matsukura N., Morino K., Miyamoto M., and Sugimura T. (1983) Genetic cvontrol of susceptibility of rats to gastric carcinoma. {\i Cancer Res.} {\b 43}, 3663-3667.\par\par Ohhira M., Ono M., Ohhira M., Sekiya C., Namiki M., Fujimoto Y., Naga M., and Mori M. (1995) Changes in free radical-metabolizing enzymes and lipid peroxides in the liver of Long-Evans with Cinnamon-like coat color rats. {\i Journal of Gastroenterology} {\b 30}, 619-623.\par\par Ohshima M., Ward J. M., and Wenk M. L. (1985) Preventive and enhancing effects of retinoids on the development of naturally-occurring tumors of skin, prostate-gland and endocrine pancreas in aged male ACI/SegHapBR rats. {\i J. Natl. Cancer Inst.} {\b 74}, 517-524.\par\par Oitzl M. S., Vanhaarst A. D., Sutanto W., and Dekloet E. R. (1995) Corticosterone, brain mineralocorticoid-receptors (MRS) and the activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis - the lewis rat as an example of increased central MR-capacity and a hyporesponsive HPA-axis. {\i Psychoneuroendocrinology} {\b 20}, 655-675.\par\par Okada S., York D. A., Bray G. A., Mei J., and Erlansonalbertsson C. (1992) Differential inhibition of fat intake in 2 strains of rat by the peptide enterostatin. {\i Am. J. Physiol.} {\b 262}, R1111-R1116.\par\par Okamoto K. (1969) Spontaneous hypertension in rats. {\i Int. Rev. Exp. Pathol.} {\b 7}, 227-270.\par\par Okamoto K., Yamori Y., Goshima A., Park C., Haebara H., Matsumoto M., Tanaka T., Okuda T., Hazama F., and Kyogoku M. (1972) Establishment of the inbred strain of the spontaneously hypertensive rat and genetic factors involved in hypertension., in {\i Spontaneous hypertension-its pathogenesis and complications} (Okamoto K., ed), pp. 1-8. Igaku Shoin Ltd., Tokyo. (Tokyo: Igaku Shoin Ltd; Oksmoto, ed; N)\par\par Okamoto K., Yamori Y., Nosaka S., Ooshima A., and Hazama F. (1973) Studies on hypertension in spontaneously hypertensive rats. {\i Clin. Sci. Molec. Med.} {\b 45}, 11s-14s.\par\par Okamoto K., Yamori Y., and Nagaoka A. (1974) Establishment of stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR). {\i Circ. Res.} {\b 34-35 (suppl.)}, I143-I153.\par\par Okamoto K., Yamamoto K., Morita N., Ohta Y., Chikugo T., Higashizawa T., and Suzuki T. (1986) Establishment and use of the M strain of stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rat. {\i J. Hypertens.} {\b 4}, S21-S24.\par\par Okui T., Hayashi M., Endoh D., Sato F., Kasai N., Watanabe T., and Namioka S. (1994) A high-frequency of induction of chromosome-aberrations in the bone- marrow cells of LEC strain rats by X-irradiation. {\i Mutation Research Letters} {\b 324}, 165-169.\par\par Oliver R. F., Jahoda C. A. B., Horne K. A., Michie H. J., Poulton T., and Johnson B. E. (1991) The DEBR rat model for alopecia-areata. {\i J. Invest. Dermatol.} {\b 96}, S97.\par\par Omiecinski C. J., Ramsden R., Rampersaud A., and Walz F. G. (1992) Null phenotype for cytochrome-P450-2b2 in the rat results from a deletion of its structural gene. {\i Molec. Pharmacol.} {\b 42}, 249-256.\par\par Otsuki M., Akiyama T., Shirokara H., Nakano S., Furumi K., and Tachibana I. (1995) Loss of sensitivity to cholecystokinin stimulation of isolated pancreatic acini from genetically diabetic rats. {\i American Journal of Physiology-Endocrinology and Metabolism} {\b 31}, E531-E536.\par\par Pace-Asciak C. R. and Carrara M. C. (1979) Reduction in dietary vitamin E prevents onset of hypertension in developing spontaneously hypertensive rats. {\i Experientia} {\b 35}, 1561-1562.\par\par Page J. G. and Vesell E. S. (1969) Hepatic drug metabolism in ten strains of Norway rat before and after pretreatment with phenobarbital. {\i Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med.} {\b 131}, 256-261.\par\par Palm J. and Black G. (1971) Interrelationships of inbred rat strains with respect to Ag-B and non-Ag-B antigens. {\i Transplant.} {\b 11}, 184-189.\par\par Pan L. C., Wilson D. W., and Segall H. J. (1993) Strain differences in the response of Fischer-344 and Sprague-Dawley rats to monocrotaline induced pulmonary vascular-disease. {\i Toxicology} {\b 79}, 21-35.\par\par Pare W. (1989) Strain, age, but not gender, influence ulcer severity induced by water-restraint stress. {\i Physiol. Behav.} {\b 45}, 627-632.\par\par Patel A., Layne S., Watts D., and Kirchner K. A. (1993) L-arginine administration normalizes pressure natriuresis in hypertensive Dahl rats. {\i Hypertension} {\b 22}, 863-869.\par\par Patrono C., Ghiselli G., Lovisolo P. P. S. P., and Barber B. R. (1989) Contribution. {\i Rat News Lett.} {\b 22}, 17-18.\par\par Pauwels R. A. and van der Straeten E. (1987) An animal model for adenosine-induced bronchoconstriction. {\i An. Rev. Respir. Dis.} {\b 136}, 374-378.\par\par Pauwels R., Joos G. F., Kips J. C., and Peleman R. A. (1993) Mechanisms of adenosine-induced bronchoconstriction - an animal-model. {\i Drug Development Research} {\b 28}, 318-321.\par\par Peers S. H., Duncan G. S., Flower R. J., and Bolton C. (1995) Endogenous corticosteroids modulate lymphoproliferation and susceptibility to experimental allergic encephalomyelitis in the Brown-Norway rat. {\i International Archives of Allergy and Immunology} {\b 106}, 20-24.\par\par Peeters B. W. M. M., Spooren W. P. J. M., Van Luijtelaar E. L. J. M., and Coenen A. M. L. (1988) The WAG/Rij rat model for absence epilepsy: anticonvulsant drug evaluation. {\i Neurosci. Res. Commun.} {\b 2}, 93-97.\par\par Peeters B. W. M. M., Kerbusch J. M. L., van Luijtelaar E. L. J. M., Vossen J. M. H., and Coenen A. M. L. (1990) Genetics of absence epilepsy in rats. {\i Behav. Genet.} {\b 20}, 453-460.\par\par Peeters B. W. M. M., Cheung K. S., Vossen J. M. H., and Coenen A. M. L. (1992a) Some solvents for antiepileptics have proepileptic potencies in the WAG/Rij rat model for absence epilepsy. {\i Brain Res. Bull.} {\b 29}, 515-517.\par\par Peeters B. W. M. M., Kerbusch J. M. L., Coenen A. M. L., Vossen J. M. H., and Van Luijtelaar E. L. J. M. (1992b) Genetics of spike-wave discharges in the electroencephalogram (EEG) of the WAG/Rij inbred rat strain: a classical Mendelian crossbreeding study. {\i Behav. Genet.} {\b 22}, 361-368.\par\par Peeters B. W. M. M., Ramakers G. M. J., Vossen J. M. H., and Coenen A. M. L. (1994) The WAG/Rij rat model for nonconvulsive absence epilepsy - involvement of non-NMDA receptors. {\i Brain Res. Bull.} {\b 33}, 709-713.\par\par Pelletier M. R. and Satinder K. P. (1991) Low-level cadmium exposure increases one-way avoidance in juvenile rats. {\i Neurotox. Teratol.} {\b 13}, 657-662.\par\par Penhale W. J., Farmer A., and Irvine W. J. (1975a) Thyroiditis in T cell-depleted rats. Influence of strain, radiation dose, adjuvants and antilymphocyte serum. {\i Clin. Exp. Immunol.} {\b 21}, 362-375.\par\par Penhale W. J., Farmer A., Urbaniak S. J., and Irvine W. J. (1975b) Susceptibility of inbred rat strains to experimental thyroiditis: Quantitation of thyroglobulin-binding cells and assessment of T-cell function in susceptible and non-susceptible strains. {\i Clin. Exp. Immunol.} {\b 19}, 179-191.\par\par Perlik F. and Zideck Z. (1974) The susceptibility of several inbred strains of rats to adjuvant-induced arthritis and experimental allergic encephalomyelitis. Z. Immunitactsforsch. {\i Exp. Klin. Immunol.} {\b 147}, 191-193.\par\par Peters A. (1986) Length of gestation period in eight inbred strains and three outbred stocks of rats. {\i Animal Technology} {\b 37}, 109-112.\par\par Peterson R. G., Little L. A., and Neel M.-A. (1990a) WKY fatty rat as a model of obesity and non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. {\i ILAR News} {\b 32}, 13-15.\par\par Peterson R. G., Shaw W. N., Neel A.-A., Little L. A., and Eichberg J. (1990b) Zucker diabetic fatty rat as a model for non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. {\i ILAR News} {\b 32}, 16-19.\par\par Pfeffer M. C., Pfeffer J. M., Dunn F. G., Nishiyama K., Tsuchiya M., and Frohlich E. D. (1979) Natural biventricular hypertrophy in normotensive rats. I. Physical and hemodynamic characteristics. {\i Am. J. Physiol.} {\b 236}, H640-H643.\par\par Phelan E. L. (1968) The New Zealand strain of rats with genetic hypertension. {\i N.Z. Med. J.} {\b 67}, 334-344.\par\par Pietrowicz D. (1986) Information on registration of inbred strain of rats. {\i Rat News Lett.} {\b 17}, 22.\par\par Poloskey P. E., Kunz H. W., Gill T. J. III, Shonnard J. W., Hansen C. T., and Dixon B. D. (1975) Genetic studies in inbred rats. IV. Xenoantisera against rat erythrocyte (Ag-C) antigens. {\i J. Immunogenet.} {\b 2}, 179-187.\par\par Pontremoli R., Spalvins A., Menachery A., Torielli L., and Canessa M. (1992) Red-cell sodium-proton exchange is increased in Dahl salt-sensitive hypertensive rats. {\i Kidney International} {\b 42}, 1355-1362.\par\par Prat F., Chapelon J. Y., Elfadil F. A., Theillere Y., Ponchon T., and Cathignol D. (1993) Invivo effects of cavitation alone or in combination with chemotherapy in a peritoneal carcinomatosis in the rat. {\i Brit. J. Cancer} {\b 68}, 13-17.\par\par Pravenec M., Klir P., and Kren V. (1988) The assignment of ES-6 locus to the LGVII of the rat and the production of HXB set of recombinant inbred strains. {\i Rat News Lett.} {\b 20}, 12-13.\par\par Pravenec M., Gauguier D., Schott J. J., Buard J., Kren V., Bila V., Szpirer C., Szpirer J., Wang J. M., Huang H. M., Stlezin E., Spence M. A., Flodman P., Printz M., Lathrop G. M., Vergnaud G., and Kurtz T. W. (1995) Mapping of quantitative trait loci for blood-pressure and cardiac mass in the rat by genome scanning of recombinant inbred strains. {\i J. Clin. Invest.} {\b 96}, 1973-1978.\par\par Preuss H. G., Knapka J. J., Macarthy P., Yousufi A. K., Sabnis S. G., and Antonovych T. T. (1992) High sucrose diets increase blood-pressure of both salt-sensitive and salt-resistant rats. {\i AJH} {\b 5}, 585-591.\par\par Prieur D. J. and Meyers K. M. (1984) Genetics of the fawn-hooded rat strain. {\i J. Hered.} {\b 75}, 349-352.\par\par Prins J. B., Herberg L., den Bierman M., and van Zutphen L. F. M. (1990) Genetic variation within and between lines of diabetes-prone and non-diabetes-prone BB rats; allele distribution of 8 protein markers. {\i Lab. Anim.} {\b 25}, 207-211.\par\par Prokocimer P. G., Maze M., and Hoffman B. B. (1987) Role of the sympathetic nervous system in the maintenance of hypertension in rats harboring pheochromocytoma. {\i J. Pharmacol. Exp. Therapeut.} {\b 241}, 870-874.\par\par Prokocimer P. G., Maze M., Vickery R. G., and Hoffman B. B. (1988) Mechanism for desensitization of -adrenergic receptor-stimulated lipolysis in adipocytes from rats harboring pheochromocytoma. {\i Endocrinol.} {\b 123}, 528-533.\par\par Pugliese F., Ferrario R. G., Ciavolella A., Tamburin M., Benatti L., Casini A., Patrono C., and Salvati P. (1995) Growth abnormalities in cultured mesangial cells from rats with spontaneous glomerulosclerosis. {\i Kidney International} {\b 47}, 106-113.\par\par Qin Y. F., Vancauteren M., Osteaux M., Schally A. V., and Willems G. (1992) Inhibitory effect of somatostatin analog RC-160 on the growth of hepatic metastases of colon cancer in rats - a study with magnetic-resonance-imaging. {\i Cancer Res.} {\b 52}, 6025-6030.\par\par Quintanilla M. E., Sepulveda S., and Tampier L. (1993) Effect of diet and disulfiram on acetaldehyde blood-levels after ethanol in UCHA and UCHB rats. {\i Alcohol} {\b 10}, 381-385.\par\par Rafi J. A. and Boegehold M. A. (1993) Microvascular responses to oxygen and muscle-contraction in hypertensive Dahl rats. {\i International Journal of Microcirculation-Clinical and Experimental} {\b 13}, 83-97.\par\par Rampersaud A. and Walz F. G. jr. (1987) Polymorphisms of four hepatic cytochromes P-450 in twenty-eight inbred strains of rat. {\i Biochem. Genet.} {\b 25}, 527-534.\par\par Rapp J. P. (1987) Use and misuse of control strains for genetically hypertensive rats. {\i Hypertension} {\b 10}, 7-10.\par\par Rapp J. P. (1994) The genetics of hypertension in Dahl rats, in {\i Handbook of Hypertension: Experimental and genetic models of hypertension Vol. 16} (Ganten D. and de Jong W., eds), pp. 186-201. Elsevier, Amsterdam, New York, Oxford.\par\par Rapp J. P. and Dene H. (1985) Development and characteristics of inbred strains of Dahl salt-sensitive and salt-resistant rats. {\i Hypertension} {\b 7}, 340-349.\par\par Rapp J. R. (1982) Dahl salt-susceptible and salt-resistant rats. A review. {\i Hypertension} {\b 4}, 753-763.\par\par Rapp J. R. (1984) Characteristics of Dahl salt-susceptible and salt-resistant rats, in {\i Handbook of Hypertension Vol. 4. Experimental and genetic models of hypertension} (de Jong W., ed), pp. 287-295. Elsevier, Amsterdam, New York, Oxford.\par\par Raymond S. L. and Dodds W. J. (1975) Characterization of the fawn-hooded rat as a model for hemostatic studies. {\i Thromb. Diathes. Haemorrh.} {\b 33}, 361-369.\par\par Reichen J., Krahenbuhl S., Kupfer A., Sagresser H., and Karlaganis G. (1986) Defective bile acid transport in an animal model of defective debrisoquine hydroxylation. {\i Biochem. Pharmacol.} {\b 35}, 753-759.\par\par Reigel C. E. J., Dailey J. W., and Jobe P. C. (1986a) The genetically epilepsy-prone rat: an overview of seizure-prone characteristics and responsiveness to anticonvulsant drugs. {\i Life Sci.} {\b 39}, 763-774.\par\par Reigel C. E., Jobe P. C., Dailey J. W., and Savage D. D. (1986b) Ontogeny of sound-induced seizure susceptibility and severity in the genetically epilepsy-prone rat (GEPR). {\i Neurosci. Abstr.} {\b 12}, 73.\par\par Reigel C. E., Jobe P. C., Dailey J. W., and Savage D. D. (1989) Ontogeny of sound-induced seizures in the genetically epilepsy-prone rat. {\i Epilepsy Res.} {\b 4}, 63-71.\par\par Remuzzi A., Puntorieri S., Alfano M., Macconi D., Abbate M., Bertani T., and  Remuzzi G. (1992) Pathophysiologic implications of proteinuria in a rat model of progressive glomerular injury. {\i Lab. Invest.} {\b 67}, 572-579.\par\par Reuber M. D. and Glover E. L. (1969) Thyroiditis in Buffalo strain rats ingesting 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene. {\i Experientia} {\b 25}, 753.\par\par Reuber M. D. and Glover E. L. (1976) Role of age and sex in chronic thyroiditis in rats fed 3'-methyl-4-dimethylaminoazobenzene. {\i Vet. Pathol.} {\b 13}, 295-302.\par\par Rick J. T. and Fulker D. W. (1972) Some biochemical correlates of inherited behavourial differences. {\i Prog. Brain Res.} {\b 36}, 105-112.\par\par Rick J. T., Tunnicliff G., Kerkut G. A., Fulker D. W., Wilcock J., and Broadhurst P. L. (1971) GAG production in brain cortex related to activity and avoidance behaviour in eight strains of rat. {\i Brain Res.} {\b 32}, 234-238.\par\par Ridder G. M., von B. E. C., Alden C. L., and Parker R. D. (1990) Increased hyalin droplet formation in male rats exposed to decalin is dependent on the presence of 2u-globulin. {\i Fundam. Appl. Toxicol.} {\b 15}, 732-743.\par\par Roba J. L. (1976) The use of spontaneously hypertensive rats for the study of anti-hypertensive agents. {\i Lab. Animal Sci.} {\b 26}, 305-319.\par\par Roberts K. A., Wright J. W., and Harding J. W. (1993) GABA and bicuculline-induced blood-pressure changes in Spontaneously Hypertensive Rats. {\i J. Cardiovasc. Pharmacol.} {\b 21}, 156-162.\par\par Robertson H. A., Martin I. L., and Candy J. M. (1978) Differences in benzodiazepine receptor binding in Maudsely reactive and Maudsely non-reactive rats. {\i Eur. J. Pharmacol.} {\b 50}, 455-457.\par\par Rogers L. J., Bolden S. W., Patrech A. S., and Ehrlich D. (1993) Visual dysfunction in the Spontaneously Hypertensive Rat. {\i Physiol. Behav.} {\b 54}, 903-907.\par\par Rokhlin O. V., Vengerova T. I., and Nezlin R. S. (1971) RL allotypes of light chains of rat immunoglobulins. {\i Immunochemistry} {\b 8}, 525-538.\par\par Roozendaal B., Wiersma A., Driscoll P., Koolhaas J. M., and Bohus B. (1992) Vasopressinergic modulation of stress responses in the central amygdala of the Roman High-Avoidance and Low-Avoidance rat. {\i Brain Res.} {\b 596}, 35-40.\par\par Roozendaal B., Koolhaas J. M., and Bohus B. (1993) Posttraining norepinephrine infusion into the central amygdala differentially enhances later retention in Roman High-Avoidance and Low-Avoidance rats. {\i Behavioral Neuroscience} {\b 107}, 575-579.\par\par Rose N. R. (1975) Differing responses of inbred rat strains in experimental autoimmune thyroiditis. {\i Cell. Immunol.} {\b 18}, 360-364.\par\par Rosenbaum J. S., Zera P., Umans V. A., Ginsburg R., and Hoffman B. B. (1986) Desensitization of aortic smooth muscle contraction in rats harboring pheochromocytoma. {\i J. Pharmacol. Exp. Therapeut.} {\b 238}, 396-400.\par\par Rosenbaum J. S., Ginsberg R., Billingham M. E., and Hoffman B. B. (1987) Effects of adrenergic receptor antagonists on cardiac morphological and functional alterations in rats harboring pheochromocytoma. {\i J. Pharmacol. Exp. Therapeut.} {\b 241}, 354-360.\par\par Rosenbaum J. S., Tsujimoto G., Billingham M. E., Lurie K. G., Ginsburg R., and Hoffman B. B. (1988) Cardiomyopathy in a rat model of pheochromoctyoma. Morphological and functional alterations. {\i Am. J. Cardiovasc. Pathol.} {\b 1}, 389-399.\par\par Rosenberg R. S., Bergman B. M., Son H. J., Arnason B. G. W., and Rechtschaffen A. (1987) Strain differences in the sleep of rats. {\i Sleep} {\b 10}, 537-541.\par\par Rothschild T. C., Boylan E. S., Calhoon R. E., and Vonderharr B. K. (1987) Trans-placental effects of diethylstilbestrol on mammary development and tumorigenesis in female ACI rats. {\i Cancer Res.} {\b 47}, 4508-4516.\par\par Rudofsky U. H. and Magro A. M. (1982) Spontaneous hypertension in Fawn-Hooded rats. {\i Lab. Animal Sci.} {\b 32}, 389-391.\par\par Russell K. E. and Stern M. H. (1973) Sex and strain as factors in voluntary alcohol intake. {\i Physiol. Behav.} {\b 10}, 641-642.\par\par Sacksteder M. R. (1976) Brief communication: Occurrence of spontaneous tumours in the germfree F344 rat. {\i J. Natl. Cancer Inst.} {\b 57}, 1371-1373.\par\par Sado Y., Naito I., Akita M., and Okigaki T. (1986) Strain specific responses of inbred rats on the severity of experimental autoimmune glomerulonephritis. {\i J. Clin. Lab. Immunol.} {\b 19}, 193-199.\par\par Sagvolden T., Hendley E. D., and Knardahl S. (1992) Behavior of hypertensive and hyperactive rat strains - hyperactivity is not unitarily determined. {\i Physiol. Behav.} {\b 52}, 49-57.\par\par Sagvolden T., Pettersen M. B., and Larsen M. C. (1993) Spontaneously Hypertensive Rats (SHR) as a putative animal-model of childhood hyperkinesia - SHR behavior compared to 4 other rat strains. {\i Physiol. Behav.} {\b 54}, 1047-1055.\par\par Sainsbury T. S. L., Duncan J. I., Whiting P. H., Hewick D. S., Johnson B. E., Thomson A. W., and Oliver R. F. (1991) Differential effects of FK-506 and cyclosporine on hair regrowth in the DEBR model of alopecia-areata. {\i Transplant. Proc.} {\b 23}, 3332-3334.\par\par Saito M., Homma S., Yamatsu I., Sato M., and Ohshima N. (1994) Visualization of renal microcirculation in isolated Munich-Wistar rat kidneys - effects of endothelin-1 on renal hemodynamic activity. {\i Jpn. J. Pharmacol.} {\b 66}, 221-229.\par\par Sakai T., Agui T., and Matsumoto K. (1994) Intestinal intraepithelial lymphocytes in LEC mutant rats. {\i Immunology Letters} {\b 41}, 185-189.\par\par Sakurai H., Satoh H., Hatanaka A., Sawada T., Kawano K., Hagino T., and Nakajima K. (1994) Unusual generation of hydroxyl radicals in hepatic copper- metallothionein of LEC (Long-Evans Cinnamon) rats in the presence of hydrogen-peroxide. {\i Biochemical and Biophysical Research Communications} {\b 199}, 313-318.\par\par Salardi S., Falchetto R., Troffa C., Parenti P., Barber B. R., Pastore S., Glorioso N., and Bianchi G. (1993) Relationships among alterations in renal membrane sodium-transport, renin and aminopeptidase-m activities in genetic-hypertension. {\i Biochimica Et Biophysica Acta} {\b 1182}, 22-29.\par\par Salganik R. I., Solovyova N. A., Dikalov S. I., Grishaeva O. N., Semenova L. A., and Popovsky A. V. (1994) Inherited enhancement of hydroxyl radical generation and lipid peroxidation in the S strain rats results in DNA rearrangments, degenerative diseases, and premature aging. {\i Biochemical and Biophysical Research Communications} {\b 199}, 726-733.\par\par Sara S. J., Devauges V., and Biegon A. (1993) Maudsley rat strains, selected for differences in emotional responses, differ in behavioral-response to clonidine and in [I-125] clonidine binding in the locus-ceruleus. {\i Behavioural Brain Research} {\b 57}, 101-104.\par\par Sara S. J., Devauges V., Biegon A., and Blizard D. A. (1994) The Maudsley rat strains as a probe to investigate noradrenergic- cholinergic interaction in cognitive function. {\i Journal of Physiology-Paris} {\b 88}, 337-345.\par\par Sasaki M. (1985) Spontaneous hepatitis in an inbred strain of Long Evans rats. {\i Rat News Lett.} {\b 14}, 4-6.\par\par Sasamoto Y., Kotake S., Yoshikawa K., Wiggert B., Gery I., and Matsuda H. (1994) Interphotoreceptor retinoid-binding protein-derived peptide can induce experimental autoimmune uveoretinitis in various rat strains. {\i Current Eye Research} {\b 13}, 845-849.\par\par Sass B., Rabstein L. S., Madison R., Nims R. M., Peters R. L., and Kelloff G. J. (1975) Incidence of spontaneous neoplasms in F344 rats throughout natural life-span. {\i J. Natl. Cancer Inst.} {\b 54}, 1449-1456.\par\par Satoh H. (1964) Transplantability of Yoshida sarcoma-result of serial transplantation 1,000 generations, 1943-1961. {\i Natl. Cancer Inst. Monogr.} {\b 16}, 7-49.\par\par Schemmel R., Mickelsen O., and Gill J. L. (1970) Dietary obesity in rats: Body weight and body fat accretion in seven strains of rats. {\i J. Nutrit.} {\b 100}, 1041-1048.\par\par Schemmel R. A., Hannum S. H., Rosekrans J. A., and Heusner W. W. (1992) Moderate exercise in young female S5B/Pl rats does not reduce body- fat. {\i Physiol. Behav.} {\b 52}, 577-581.\par\par Schiffelers M. and Timmermans P. J. A. (1988) Role of dam and pups in the absence of nursing in CPB-B rats (Rattue norvegicus). {\i Behavioural Processes} {\b 16}, 167-171.\par\par Schramm L. P. and Barton G. N. (1979) Diminished sympathetic silent period in spontaneously hypertensive. {\i Am. J. Physiol.} {\b 236}, R147-R152.\par\par Schutze N., Kraft V., Deerberg F., Winking H., Meitinger D., Ebert K., Knuppen R., and Vollmer G. (1992) Functions of estrogens and antiestrogens in the rat endometrial adenocarcinoma cell-lines RUCA-I and RUCA-II. {\i Int. J. Cancer} {\b 52}, 941-949.\par\par Scolnik M. D., Servadio C., and Abramovici A. (1994) Comparative-study of experimentally-induced benign and atypical hyperplasia in the ventral prostate of different rat strains. {\i J. Androl.} {\b 15}, 287-297.\par\par Sedgwick J. D., Schwender S., Gregersen R., Dorries R., and Termeulen V. (1993) Resident macrophages (ramified microglia) of the adult Brown Norway rat central-nervous-system are constitutively major histocompatibility complex class-II positive. {\i J. Exp. Med.} {\b 177}, 1145-1152.\par\par Semik M., Schnabel R., Bruske T., Lange V., Wottge H., Morgenrot K., and Toomes H. (1994) Ultrastructural studies of acute rejection following single-lung transplantation in the rat - histological and immunohistological findings. {\i Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgeon} {\b 42}, 290-297.\par\par Seto K., Abe M., Ohya O., Itakura O., Ishiguro N., Ikeda H., Wakisaka A., and Yoshiki T. (1995) A rat model of HTLV-1 infection - development of chronic progressive myeloneuropathy in seropositive WKAH rats and related apoptosis. {\i Acta Neuropathol.} {\b 89}, 483-490.\par\par Shain S. A., McCullough B., and Segaloff A. (1975) Spontaneous adenocarcinomas of the ventral prostate of aged A x C rats. {\i J. Natl. Cancer Inst.} {\b 55}, 177-180.\par\par Shain S. A., Schultz J. J., and De L. C. (1986) Aging in the AXC/SSh rat: characterization of moderately abundant ventral prostate proteins showing age-dependent diminution and one protein exhibiting age-invariant content. {\i Mech. Ageing  Dev.} {\b 37}, 147-162.\par\par Shearer D., Creel D., and Wilson C. E. (1973) Strain differences in the response of rats to repeated injections of pentobarbital sodium. {\i Lab. Animal Sci.} {\b 23}, 662-664.\par\par Shern R. J. and Couet K. M. (1979) Effects of stannous fluoride and tiodonium chloride on dental plaque in rats. {\i J. Dental Res.} {\b 58}, 1830-1835.\par\par Shern R. J., Couet K. M., Chow L. C., and Brown and W. E. (1979) Effects of sequential calcium phosphate--Fluoride rinses on fluoride uptake in rats. {\i J. Dental Res.} {\b 58}, 1023.\par\par Shibota M., Nagaoka A., and Shino A. (1979) Renin-angiotensin system in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats. {\i Am. J. Physiol.} {\b 236}, H409-H416.\par\par Shibutani M., Maekawa A., Okeda R., Mitsumori K., Imazawa T., Yoshida J., Onodera H., and Hayashi Y. (1993) An experimental-model for anaplastic astrocytomas and glioblastomas using adult F344 rats and N-methyl-N-nitrosourea. {\i Acta Pathologica Japonica} {\b 43}, 464-474.\par\par Shigeta S., Miyake K., Misawa T., Aikawa H., Yoshida T., and Katoh H. (1990) A new inbred rat strain "THA". {\i Rat News Lett.} {\b 23}, 9-11.\par\par Shinohara M., Ohura K., Ogata K., and Mori M. (1991) A new rat strain with naturally occurrindg gingivitis, "ODUS/Odu2". {\i Rat News Lett.} {\b 24}, 4-6.\par\par Shinohara M., Ohura K., Ogata K., Inoue H., Miyata T., and Yoshioka M. (1994) The relationship between the sialic-acid concentrations in the serum and whole saliva in rats with naturally-occurring gingivitis. {\i Jpn. J. Pharmacol.} {\b 64}, 61-63.\par\par Shirai T., Nakamura A., Fukushima S., Yamamoto A., Tada M., and Ito N. (1990) Different carcinogenic responses in a variety of organs, including the prostate, of five different rat strains given 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl. {\i Carcinogenesis} {\b 11}, 793-797.\par\par Shoji R. (1977) Spontaneous occurrence of congenital malformations and mortality in prenatal inbred rats. {\i Proc. Jpn. Acad.} {\b 53}, 54-67.\par\par Shoji R. and Harata M. (1977) Two types of abnormal urogenital organs occurring spontaneously in inbred ACI and Kyoto-notched rats. {\i Lab. Anim.} {\b 11}, 247-249.\par\par Shoji R., Kimura R., Murata Y., and Hanai A. (1988) Report: Establishment of a new mutant strain of congenital cataract and Hereditary clubfoot spontaneously occurred in WKAH/Idr inbred strain. {\i Rat News Lett.} {\b 20}, 22.\par\par Shumiya S., Ando S., Kon K., and Nagase S. (1987) Establishment of five analbuminemic inbred rat strains. {\i Exp. Animals (Japan)} {\b 36}, 415-422.\par\par Sidman R. L. and Pearlstein R. (1965) Pink-eyed dilution (p) gene in rodents: Increased pigmentation in tissue culture. {\i Devel. Biol.} {\b 12}, 93-116.\par\par Siebert U. and Wollnik F. (1991) Wheel-running activity rhythms in 2 inbred strains of laboratory rats under different photoperiods. {\i Physiol. Behav.} {\b 50}, 1137-1143.\par\par Siegel J., Sisson D. F., and Driscoll P. (1993) Augmenting and reducing of visual-evoked potentials in Roman High- Avoidance and Low-Avoidance rats. {\i Physiol. Behav.} {\b 54}, 707-711.\par\par Silverman D. A. and Rose N. R. (1975a) Spontaneous and methylcholanthrene-enhanced thyroiditis in BUF rats. I. The incidence and severity of the disease, and the genetics of susceptibility. {\i J. Immunol.} {\b 114}, 145-147.\par\par Silverman D. A. and Rose N. R. (1975b) Spontaneous and methylcholanthrene-enhanced thyroiditis in BUF rats. II. Induction of experimental autoimmune thyroiditis without complete Freund' s adjuvant. {\i J. Immunol.} {\b 114}, 148-150.\par\par Silvers W. K. and Collins N. H. (1979) The behavior of H-Y-incompatible neonatal skin grafts in rats. {\i Transplant.} {\b 28}, 57-59.\par\par Simons J. L., Provoost A. P., Anderson S., Troy J. L., Rennke H. G., Sandstrom D. J., and Brenner B. M. (1993) Pathogenesis of glomerular injury in the Fawn-Hooded rat - early glomerular capillary hypertension predicts glomerular sclerosis. {\i Journal of the American Society of Nephrology} {\b 3}, 1775-1782.\par\par Simpson F. O. and Phelan E. L. (1984) Hypertension in the Genetically Hypertensive strain, in {\i Handbook of Hypertension Vol. 4. Experimental and genetic models of hypertension} (de Jong W., ed), pp. 200-223. Elsevier, Amsterdam, New York, Oxford.\par\par Simpson F. O., Phelan E. L., Clark D. W. J., Jones D. R., Gresson C. R., Lee D. R., and Bird D. L. (1973) Studies on the New Zealand strain of genetically hypertensive rats. {\i Clin. Sci. Molec. Med.} {\b 45}, 15s-21s.\par\par Simpson F. O., Phelan E. L., Ledingham J. M., and Millar J. A. (1994) Hypertension in the Genetically Hypertensive  (GH) strain, in {\i Handbook of Hypertension Vol. 16 Experimental and Genetic Models of Hypertension} (Ganten D. and de Jong W., eds), pp. 228-271. Elsevier, Amsterdam, New York, Oxford.\par\par Skov K., Nyengaard J. R., Korsgaard N., and Mulvany M. J. (1994) Number and size of renal glomeruli in Spontaneously Hypertensive Rats. {\i J. Hypertens.} {\b 12}, 1373-1376.\par\par Slaiby J. M., Ricci M. A., Gadowski G. R., Hendley E. D., and Pilcher D. B. (1994) Expansion of aortic-aneurysms is reduced by propranolol in a hypertensive rat model. {\i Journal of Vascular Surgery} {\b 20}, 178-183.\par\par Slieker L. J., Sundell K. L., Heath W. F., Osborne H. E., Bue J., Manetta J., and Sportsman J. R. (1992) Glucose transporter levels in tissues of spontaneously diabetic Zucker fa fa rat (ZDF/Drt) and viable yellow mouse (A{\up4 vy/a}). {\i Diabetes} {\b 41}, 187-193.\par\par Smith C. C., Hauser E., Renaud N. K., Leff A., Aksentijevich S., Chrousos G. P., Wilder R. L., Gold P. W., and Sternberg E. M. (1992) Increased hypothalamic [H-3] flunitrazepam binding in hypothalamic pituitary-adrenal axis hyporesponsive Lewis rats. {\i Brain Res.} {\b 569}, 295-299.\par\par Smyth D. D., Phelan E. L., and Stanko C. (1992) Renal alpha-2-adrenoceptors in New-Zealand genetically hypertensive rats. {\i Journal of Autonomic Pharmacology} {\b 12}, 73-80.\par\par Snajdar R. M. and Rapp J. R. (1985) Atrial natriuretic factor in Dahl rats. Atrial content and renal and aortic responses. {\i Hypertension} {\b 7}, 775-782.\par\par Snell K. C. (1965) Spontaneous lesions of the rat, in {\i The Pathology of Laboratory Animals} (Ribelin W. E. and McCoy J. R., eds), pp. 241-302. Charles C. Thomas, Springfield, Illinois.\par\par Snell K. C. (1967) Renal disease of the rat, in {\i Pathology of Laboratory Rats and Mice} (Cotchin E. and Roe F. J., eds), pp. 105-147. Blackwell Scientific, Oxford.\par\par Sobel D. O., Newsome J., Ewel C. H., Bellanti J. A., Abbassi V., Creswell K., and Blair O. (1992) Poly-I-C induces development of diabetes-mellitus in BB rat. {\i Diabetes} {\b 41}, 515-520.\par\par Soldati L. P., Barber B. R., Salardi S., Molinari I., and Bianchi G. (1995) A new rat model for studying the calpain-calpastatin system. {\i Lab. Anim.} {\b 29}, 420-426.\par\par Soleveld H. A. and Boorman G. A. (1986) Spontaneous renal lesions in five rat strains. {\i Toxi. Pathol.} {\b 14}, 168-174.\par\par Soleveld H. A., Haseman J. K., and McConell E. E. (1984) Natural history of body weight gain, survival and neoplasia in the F344 rat. {\i J. Natl. Cancer Inst.} {\b 72}, 929-940.\par\par Sollars S. I. and Bernstein I. L. (1994) Gustatory deafferentation and desalivation - effects on nacl preference of Fischer-344 rats. {\i Am. J. Physiol.} {\b 266}, R510-R517.\par\par Solovyova N. A., Morozkova T. S., and Salganik R. I. (1975) Development of the inherited galactosemia symptoms in rats. {\i Genetika} {\b 5}, 63-72.\par\par Stankus R. P. and Leslie G. A. (1976) Rat interstrain antibody response and crossidiotypic specificity. {\i Immunogenet.} {\b 3}, 65-73.\par\par Stark C., Kahrmann B., and Walzel E. (1995) Epi-and metaphyseal morphology in the long bones of BDIX/Han rats. {\i Lab. Anim.} {\b 30}, 35-41.\par\par Stark O. and Kren V. (1969) Five congenic resistant lines of rats differing at the Rt. H-1 locus. {\i Transplant.} {\b 8}, 200-203.\par\par Stark O. and Zeiss I. (1970) Antigens des ersten Histokompatibilitatssystems (H-1) bei den BD (Berlin Druckrey) und BDE-Ratteninzuchst\'8ammen. {\i Z. Versuchstierk.} {\b 12s}, 27-40.\par\par Stark O., Frenzl B., and Kren V. (1968a) Erythrocyte and transplantation antigens in inbred strains of rats. VII. H-1 alleles of the LEP, CAP, BN, BD V, BD VII and BD X strains. {\i Folia Biol.} {\b 14}, 169-175.\par\par Stark O., Kren V., Frenzl B., and Krenova D. (1968b) Histocompatibility-1 alleles in inbred rats of the BD II, WR, AGA, CDF1 AS, BS, HS and DA strains. {\i Folia Biol.} {\b 14}, 425-432.\par\par Steinmann A., Friedrich E., and Rath U. (1995) A novel methotrexate-albumin (MTX-RSA)-conjugate causes significant growth delay of O-342 ovarian-carcinoma in-vivo. {\i Oncology Reports} {\b 2}, 107-109.\par\par Stenglein B., Thoenes G. H., and Gunther E. (1975) Genetically controlled autologous immune complex glomerulonephritis in rats. {\i J. Immunol.} {\b 115}, 895-897.\par\par Stepaniak J. A., Gould K. E., Sun D. M., and Swanborg R. H. (1995) A comparative-study of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in Lewis and DA rats. {\i J. Immunol.} {\b 155}, 2762-2769.\par\par Stlezin E., Simonet L., Pravenec M., and Kurtz T. W. (1992) Hypertensive strains and normotensive control strains - how closely are they related. {\i Hypertension} {\b 19}, 419-424.\par\par Stolc V. (1984) Genetic polymorphism of ceruloplasmin levels in the rat. {\i J. Hered.} {\b 70}, 145-146.\par\par Stolc V. (1986) Genetics of meprin in the rat. {\i J. Genet.} {\b 65}, 13-17.\par\par Stolc V. and Gill III T. J. (1983) Linkage and polymorphism of a gene controlling lactate dehydrogenase in the rat. {\i Biochem. Genet.} {\b 21}, 933-941.\par\par Stolc V., Kunz H. W., and Gill III T. J. (1983) Polymorphism of malic dehydrogenase, methemoglobin reductase, ceruloplasmin, and catalase in the rat. {\i Transplant. Proc.} {\b 15}, 1679-1680.\par\par Stromberg P. C. (1985) Large granular lymphocyte leukemia. {\i Am. J. Pathol.} {\b 119}, 517-519.\par\par Sugimura T., Inoue R., Ohgaki H., Ushijima T., Canzian F., and Nagao M. (1995) Genetic polymorphisms and susceptibility to cancer development. {\i Pharmacogenetics} {\b 5}, S161-S165.\par\par Sugiyama T., Takeichi N., Kobayashi H., Yoshida M. C., Sasaki M., and Taniguchi N. (1988) Metabolic predisposition of a novel mutant (LEC rats) to hereditary hepatitis and hepatoma: alterations of the drug metabolizing enzymes. {\i Carcinogenesis} {\b 9}, 1569-1572.\par\par Suzuki K. T. and Kuroda T. (1994) Direct transfer of copper from metallothionein to superoxide- dismutase - a possible mechanism for differential supply of Cu to SOD and ceruloplasmin in LEC rats. {\i Research Communications in Molecular Pathology and Pharmacology} {\b 86}, 15-23.\par\par Suzuki K.-I., Goto Y., and Toyota T. (1992) Spontaneously diabetic GK (Goto-Kakizaki) rats, in {\i Lessons from Animal Diabetes} (Shafrir E., ed), pp. 107-116. Smith-Gordon, London.\par\par Suzuki K., Miyazawa N., Nakata T., Seo H. G., Sugiyama T., and Taniguchi N. (1993) High copper and iron levels and expression of MN-superoxide dismutase in mutant rats displaying hereditary hepatitis and hepatoma (LEC rats). {\i Carcinogenesis} {\b 14}, 1881-1884.\par\par Suzuki K. T., Yamamoto K., Ogra Y., Kanno S., and Aoki Y. (1994) Mechanisms for removal of copper from metallothionein by tetrathiomolybdate. {\i Journal of Inorganic Biochemistry} {\b 54}, 157-165.\par\par Suzuki K. T., Kanno S., Misawa S., and Aoki Y. (1995) Copper-metabolism leading to and following acute hepatitis in LEC rats. {\i Toxicology} {\b 97}, 81-92.\par\par Suzuki T., Ishihara N., Seido T., and Oboshi S. (1977) Antitumor activity of macrophages induced by {\i Corynebacterium liquifaciens}. {\i Gann} {\b 68}, 386-396.\par\par Swislocki A. and Tsuzuki A. (1993) Insulin-resistance and hypertension - glucose-intolerance, hyperinsulinemia, and elevated free fatty-acids in the lean Spontaneously Hypertensive Rat. {\i American Journal of the Medical Sciences} {\b 306}, 282-286.\par\par Symeonidis A. (1954) Tumors induced by 2-acetylaminofluorene in virgin and breeding females of five strains of rats and in their offspring. {\i J. Natl. Cancer Inst.} {\b 15}, 539-549.\par\par Tada N., Itakura K., and Aizawa M. (1974) Genetic control of the antibody response in inbred rats. {\i J. Immunogenet.} {\b 1}, 265-275.\par\par Taguchi O., Kontani K., Ikeda H., and Matsuyama M. (1992) An intrinsic thymic epithelial abnormality is responsible for the spontaneous development of predominantly lymphocytic thymomas in BUF/Mna rats. {\i Jpn. J. Cancer Res.} {\b 83}, 1166-1171.\par\par Takahara E., Nagata O., Kato H., Ohta S., and Hirobe M. (1993) Interindividual differences of (+)-4-[4-(4-methylphenyl)phenylmethoxy-1-piperidinyl]butyric acid ((+)-mppb) disposition in rats. {\i Biol. Pharmaceut. Bull.} {\b 16}, 1057-1059.\par\par Takahashi H., Shoji T., Tsubura A., and Morii S. (1992) Neoplastic response to DMBA powder in mammary and interscapular tissues in Wistar Furth and Copenhagen female rats. {\i International Journal of Oncology} {\b 1}, 657-659.\par\par Takahashi M., Andolu J., Yoshida M., Iijima T., Ishihara R., Imai S., Kitamura T., Suzuki K., Nishiyama K., Nishimura S., Sasahara K., Wakabayashi K., and Maekawa A. (1995) Induction of endometrial adenocarcinomas by a single intrauterine administration of N-ethyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine to aged DONRYU rats showing spontaneously persistent estrus. {\i Cancer Lett.} {\b 95}, 85-91.\par\par Takenaka T., Forster H., Demicheli A., and Epstein M. (1992) Impaired myogenic responsiveness of renal microvessels in Dahl salt- sensitive rats. {\i Circ. Res.} {\b 71}, 471-480.\par\par Tamai M. and O'Brien P. J. (1979) Retinal dystrophy in the RCS rat: In vivo and in vitro studies of phagocytic action of the pigment epithelium on the shed rod outer segments. {\i Exp. Eye Res.} {\b 28}, 399-411.\par\par Tampier L., Quintanilla M. E., and Mardones J. (1994) Acetaldehyde metabolism - differences between UCHA and UCHB rats. {\i Alcohol and Alcoholism} {\b 29}, 751-755.\par\par Tampier L., Quintanilla M. E., and Mardones J. (1995) Effects of aminotriazole on ethanol, water, and food-intake and on brain catalase in UCHA and UCHB rats. {\i Alcohol} {\b 12}, 341-344.\par\par Tanaka H., Hirose M., Hagiwara A., Imaida K., Shirai T., and Ito N. (1995) Rat strain differences in catechol carcinogenicity to the stomach. {\i Food and Chemical Toxicology} {\b 33}, 93-98.\par\par Tanaka T., Kojima T., Kawamori T., Wang A. J., Suzui M., Okamoto K., and Mori H. (1993) Inhibition of 4-nitroquinoline-1-oxide-induced rat tongue carcinogenesis by the naturally-occurring plant phenolics caffeic, ellagic, chlorogenic and ferulic acids. {\i Carcinogenesis} {\b 14}, 1321-1325.\par\par Tanaka T., Suzui M., Kojima T., Okamoto K., Wang A., and Mori H. (1995) Chemoprevention of the naturally-occurring carcinogen 1-hydroxyanthraquinone-induced carcinogenesis by the nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug indomethacin in rats. {\i Cancer Detection and Prevention} {\b 19}, 418-425.\par\par Tanase H. and Suzuki Y. (1971) Strain difference and genetic determination of blood pressure in rats. {\i Exp. Animals (Japan)} {\b 20}, 1-5.\par\par Tanase H., Yamori Y., Hansen C. T., and Lovenberg W. (1982) Heart size in inbred strains of rats. Part 1. Genetic determination of the development of cardiovascular enlargement in rats. {\i Hypertension} {\b 4}, 864-872.\par\par Tang F. D., Yonehara N., Imai Y., Takiuchi S., Inoki R., and Bian R. L. (1994) Releases of bradykinin and substance-P by heating hind paw of rat. {\i Acta Pharmacologica Sinica} {\b 15}, 232-234.\par\par Tayama K. and Shisa H. (1994) Development of pigmented scales on rat skin - relation to age, sex, strain, and hormonal effect. {\i Lab. Animal Sci.} {\b 44}, 240-244.\par\par Taylor H. W. and Lijinsky W. (1985) Urinary bladder neoplasms. {\i Comp. Pathol. Bull.} {\b 17}, 3-4.\par\par Tchervenkov J. I., Cofer B. R., Davies C., and Alexander J. W. (1995) Indefinite allograft survival induced by the combination of multiple donor-specific transfusions, cyclosporine, and an anti-T cell monoclonal-antibody in a protocol relevant to cadaveric organ-transplantation - the importance of prolonged posttransplant cyclosporine coverage. {\i Transplant.} {\b 59}, 821-824.\par\par Teramoto K., Bowers J. L., Khettry U., Palombo J. D., and Clouse M. E. (1993) A rat fatty liver-transplant model. {\i Transplant.} {\b 55}, 737-741.\par\par Teruya M., Takei S., Forrest L. E., Grunewald A., Chan E. K., and Charles M. A. (1993) Pancreatic-islet function in nondiabetic and diabetic BB rats. {\i Diabetes} {\b 42}, 1310-1317.\par\par Thanos S. (1992) Sick photoreceptors attract activated microglia from the ganglion- cell layer - a model to study the inflammatory cascades in rats with inherited retinal dystrophy. {\i Brain Res.} {\b 588}, 21-28.\par\par Thanos S. and Richter W. (1993) The migratory potential of vitally labeled microglial cells within the retina of rats with hereditary photoreceptor dystrophy. {\i International Journal of Developmental Neuroscience} {\b 11}, 671-680.\par\par Thrall R. S., McCormack J. R., Jack R. M., McReynolds R. A., and Ward P. A. (1979) Bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis in the rat Inhibition by indomethacin. {\i Am. J. Pathol.} {\b 95}, 117-130.\par\par Tilson H. A. and Cabe P. A. (1979a) The effects of arylamide given acutely or in repeated doses on fore- and hindlimb function of rats. {\i Toxicol. Appl. Pharmacol.} {\b 47}, 253-260.\par\par Tilson H. A. and Cabe P. A. (1979b) Studies on the neurobehavioral effects of polybrominated biphenyls in rats. {\i Ann. NY Acad. Sci.} {\b 320}, 325-336.\par\par Tilson H. A., Cabe P. A., and Mitchell C. L. (1978) Behavioral and neurological toxicity of polybrominated biphenyls in rats and mice. {\i Environ. Health Perspect.} {\b 23}, 257-263.\par\par Tizabi Y., Aguilera G., and Gilad G. M. (1992) Age-related reduction in pituitary corticotropin-releasing hormone receptors in 2 rat strains. {\i Neurobiology of Aging} {\b 13}, 227-230.\par\par Togashi Y., Li Y., Kang J. H., Takeichi N., Fujioka Y., Nagashima K., and Kobayashi H. (1992) D-penicillamine prevents the development of hepatitis in Long-Evans Cinnamon rats with abnormal copper-metabolism. {\i Hepatology} {\b 15}, 82-87.\par\par Trouillaz J., Girod C., Claustrat B., Cure M., and Dubois M. P. (1982) Spontaneous pituitary tumors in the Wistar/Furth/Ico rat strain: An animal model of human prolactin adenoma. {\i Am. J. Pathol.} {\b 109}, 57-70.\par\par Tsakiridou E., Bertollini L., Decurtis M., Avanzini G., and Pape H. C. (1995) Selective increase in T-type calcium conductance of reticular thalamic neurons in a rat model of absence epilepsy. {\i Journal of Neuroscience} {\b 15}, 3110-3117.\par\par Tschopp T. B. and Zucker M. B. (1972) Hereditary defect in platelet function in rats. {\i Blood} {\b 40}, 217-226.\par\par Tsuchitani M., Saegusa T., Narama I., Nishikawa T., and Gonda T. (1985) A new diabetic strain of the rat (WBN/Kob). {\i Lab. Anim.} {\b 19}, 200-207.\par\par Tulp O. L. (1990) Characteristics of thermogenesis, obesity and longevity in the LA/N-cp rat. {\i ILAR News} {\b 32}, 32-38.\par\par Tulp O. L. and Weng M. (1992) Effect of genetic dilution on development of diabetes, impaired glucose-tolerance and invitro glucose-oxidation in LA/n-cp X SHR/n-cp F1-hybrid rats. {\i Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology A-Comparative Physiology} {\b 101}, 403-408.\par\par Turusov V. S. and Cabral J. P. R. (1994) S-100 protein and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in experimentally-induced and spontaneous tumors of peripheral-nerves in BDVI rats - light-microscopic and immunohistochemical study. {\i Experimental and Toxicologic Pathology} {\b 46}, 343-353.\par\par Ueda Y. and Steinberg R. H. (1993) Voltage-operated calcium channels in fresh and cultured rat retinal- pigment epithelial-cells. {\i Investigative Ophthalmology & Visual Science} {\b 34}, 3408-3418.\par\par Uehara Y., Kawabata Y., Hirawa N., Takada S., Nagata T., Numabe A., Iwai J., and Sugimoto T. (1993a) Possible radical scavenging properties of cicletanine and renal protection in Dahl salt-sensitive rats. {\i AJH} {\b 6}, 463-472.\par\par Uehara Y., Kawabata Y., Shirahase H., Wada K., Hashizume Y., Morishita S., Numabe A., and Iwai J. (1993b) Oxygen radical scavengers and renal protection by indapamide diuretic in salt-induced hypertension of Dahl strain rats. {\i J. Cardiovasc. Pharmacol.} {\b 22}, S42-S46.\par\par Urizar R. E., Cerda J., Dodds W. J., Raymond S. L., Largent J. A., Simon R., and Gilboa N. (1984) Age-related renal, hematological and hemostatic abnormalities in FH/Wjd rats. {\i Am. J. Vet. Res.} {\b 45}, 1624-1631.\par\par Vandelangerijt A. G. M., Vanlent P. L. E. M., Hermus A. R. M. M., Vandeputte L. B. A., and Vandenberg W. B. (1993) Regulation of resistance against adjuvant arthritis in the Fisher rat. {\i Clin. Exp. Immunol.} {\b 94}, 150-155.\par\par Vangelder M. and Vanbekkum D. W. (1995) Treatment of relapsing experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in rats with allogeneic bone-marrow transplantation from a resistant strain. {\i Bone Marrow Transplantation} {\b 16}, 343-351.\par\par van Hooft J. I. M. Survey of mouse and rat breeding colonies at ITRI-TNO. Unpublished manuscript. PO Box 5815, 2280 HV. Rijswijk, The Netherlands.\par\par Van Luijtelaar E. L. J. M. and Coenen A. M. L. (1988) Circadian rhythmicity in absence epilepsy in rats. {\i Epilepsy Res.} {\b 2}, 331-336.\par\par Van Luijtelaar E. L. J. M. and Coenen A. M. L. (1989) The WAG/Rij model for generalized absence seizures. {\i Adv. Epilept.} {\b 17}, 78-83.\par\par Van Luijtelaar E. L. J. M., Kerbusch J. M. L., and Coenen A. M. L. (1988) Paradoxical sleep, learning, and memory processes in rats: a genetic approch, in {\i Sleep '86} (Koella W. P., Obal F., Schulz H., and Visser P., eds), pp. 379-381. Gustav Fischer Verlag, Stuttgart, New York.\par\par Vanmoorselaar R. J. A., Ichikawa T., Schaafsma H. E., Jap P. H. K., Isaacs J. T., Vanstratum P., Ramaekers F. C. S., Debruyne F. M. J., and Schalken J. A. (1993) The rat bladder-tumor model system RBT resembles phenotypically and cytogenetically human superficial transitional-cell carcinoma. {\i Urological Research} {\b 21}, 413-421.\par\par van Vliet J. C. J. (1977) Strains/stocks/mutants held. {\i Rat News Lett.} {\b 1}, 63-64.\par\par van Zutphen L. F. M., Langerwerf A., Bouw J., and den Bieman M. G. C. W. (1981) Biochemical polymorphisms in the rat: genetics of three electrophoretic variants and characterization of inbred strains. {\i Biochem. Genet.} {\b 19}, 173-186.\par\par van Zwieten M. J., Shellabarger C. J., Hollander C. F., Cramer D. V., Stone J. P., Holtzman S., and Broerse J. J. (1984a) Differences in DMBA-induced mammary neoplastic responses in two lines of Sprague-Dawley rats. {\i Eur. J. Cancer Clin. Oncol.} {\b 20}, 1199-1204.\par\par van Zwieten M. J., Shellabarger C. J., Hollander C. F., Cramer D. V., Stone J. P., Holtzman S., and Broerse J. J. (1984b) Differences in the DMBA-induced mammary neoplastic response in two lines of Sprague-Dawley rats. {\i Eur. J. Cancer Clin. Oncol.} {\b 20}, 1199-1204.\par\par Vardimon D., Locker J., Kunz H. W., and Gill T. J. (1992) Physical mapping of the MHC and Grc by pulse field electrophoresis. {\i Immunogenet.} {\b 35}, 166-175.\par\par Verbanac J. S., Altman H. J., Dhingra P., Harrington G. M., and Commissaris R. L. (1993) Conflict behavior in Maudsley Reactive and Nonreactive rats - effects of noradrenergic neuronal destruction. {\i Pharmacol. Biochem. Behav.} {\b 45}, 429-438.\par\par Vieregge V. T., Hackbarth H., and Bercher P. (1987) Die Pentobarbitalschlafzeit zur pharmakogenetischen Differenzierung von Ratteninzuchtstammen. {\i Z. Versuchstierk.} {\b 29}, 209-217.\par\par Viglinskaya I. V., Overstreet D. H., Kashevskaya O. P., Badishtov B. A., Kampovpolevoy A. B., Seredenin S. B., and Halikas J. A. (1995) To drink or not to drink - tests of anxiety and immobility in alcohol-preferring and alcohol-nonpreferring rat strains. {\i Physiol. Behav.} {\b 57}, 937-941.\par\par Villar-Palasi C. and Farese R. V. (1994) Impaired skeletal muscle glycogen synthase activation by insulin in the Goto-Kakizaki (GK) rat. {\i Diabetologia} {\b 37}, 885-888.\par\par Vincent M. and Sassard J. (1994) The Lyon strains of hypertensive, normotensive and low blood pressure rats, in {\i Handbook of Hypertension Vol. 16 Experimental and Genetic Models of Hypertension} (Ganten D. and de Jong W., eds), pp. 300-315. Elsevier, Amsterdam, New York, Oxford.\par\par Vincent M., Saquet J., and Sassard J. (1984) The Lyon strains of hypertensive, normotensive and low-blood pressure rats, in {\i Handbook of Hypertension Vol. 4. Experimental and genetic models of hypertension} (de Jong W., ed), pp. 314-327. Elsevier, Amsterdam, New York, Oxford.\par\par Vincent M., Boussairi E. H., Cartier R., Lo M., Sassolas A., Cerutti C., Barres C., Gustin M. P., Cuisinaud G., Samani N. J., Lathrop G. M., and Sassard J. (1993) High blood-pressure and metabolic disorders are associated in the Lyon Hypertensive rat. {\i J. Hypertens.} {\b 11}, 1179-1185.\par\par Vogt L. and Kloting I. (1993) Model-based prediction of diabetes incidence in BB/Ok rats. {\i Diabete & Metabolisme} {\b 19}, 183-187.\par\par Volpe M. and Rabattu S. (1994) Pathophysiological aspects of genetically determined hypertension in rats, with special emphasis on stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats, in {\i Handbook of Hypertension Vol. 16 Experimental and Genetic Models of Hypertension} (Ganten D. and de Jong W., eds), pp. 365-394. Elsevier, Amsterdam, New York, Oxford.\par\par von Deimling O. H., Simon B., Kluge R., and Hedrich H. J. (1988) Esterase-16 (Es-16) of the rat {\i Rattue norvegicus}: identification and genetic characterization. {\i Biochem. Genet.} {\b 26}, 605-615.\par\par von Sallmann L. and Grimes P. (1972) Spontaneous retinal degeneration in mature Osborne-Mendel rats. {\i Arch. Ophthalmol.} {\b 88}, 404-411.\par\par von Sallmann L. and Grimes P. (1974) Retinal degeneration in mature rats. Comparison of the disease in an Osborne-Mendel and a spontaneously hypertensive Wistar strain. {\i Invest. Ophthalmol.} {\b 13}, 1010-1015.\par\par Wang T. M., Hsu J. F., Jee W. S. S., and Matthews J. L. (1993) Evidence for reduced cancellous bone mass in the Spontaneously Hypertensive Rat. {\i Bone and Mineral} {\b 20}, 251-264.\par\par Ward J. M., Reznik G., Stinson G. F., Lattuada C. P., Longfellow D. G., and Cameron T. P. (1980) Histogenesis and morphology of naturally occurring prostatic carcinoma in the ACI/Seg Hap BR rat. {\i Lab. Invest.} {\b 43}, 517-522.\par\par Watson J. I. and Dixon F. J. (1966) Experimental glomerulonephritis. IX. Factors influencing the development of kidney in adjuvant nephritis in rats. {\i Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med.} {\b 121}, 216-223.\par\par Waxman F. J., Perryman L. E., Hinrichs D. J., and Coe J. E. (1981) Genetic resistance to the induction of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis in Lewis rats. I. Genetic analysis of an apparent mutant strain with phenotypic resistance to experimental allergic encephalomyelitis. {\i J. Exp. Med.} {\b 153}, 61-74.\par\par Werner S. C., Manger W. M., Radichevich I., Wolff M., and von E. I. (1975) Excessive thyrotropin concentrations in the circulation of the spontaneously hypertensive rat. {\i Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med.} {\b 148}, 1013-1017.\par\par Whalen B. J., Rossini A. A., Mordes J. P., and Greiner D. L. (1995) DR-BE rat thymus contains thymocyte populations predisposed to autoreactivity. {\i Diabetes} {\b 44}, 963-967.\par\par Whatley S. A., Perrett C. W., Zamani R., and Gray J. A. (1992) Analysis of relative messenger-RNA levels and protein-patterns in brains of rat strains bred for differing levels of emotionality. {\i Behav. Genet.} {\b 22}, 403-413.\par\par White S. C. and Casarett G. W. (1974) Induction of experimental autoallergic sialadenitis. {\i J. Immunol.} {\b 112}, 178-185.\par\par Wiggert B., Bergsma D. R., Helmsen R., and Chader G. J. (1978) Vitamin A receptors: Retinoic acid binding in ocular tissues. {\i Biochem. J.} {\b 169}, 87-94.\par\par Wilder R. L., Calandra G. B., Garvin A. J., Wright K. D., and Hansen C. T. (1982) Strain and sex variation in the susceptibility to streptococcal cell wall-induced polyarthritis in the rat. {\i Arthritis Rheum.} {\b 25}, 1064-1072.\par\par Wilder R. L., Allen J. B., Wahl L. M., Calandra G. B., and Wahl S. M. (1983) The pathogenesis of group A streptococcal cell wall-induced polyarthritis in the rat: Comparative studies in arthritis resistant and susceptible inbred rat strains. {\i Arthritis Rheum.} {\b 26}, 1442-1451.\par\par Wilder R. L., Allen J. B., and Hansen C. (1987) Thymus-dependent and -independent regulation of Ia antigen expression in situ by cells in the synovium of rats with streptococcal cell wall-induced arthritis. Differences in site and intensity of expression in euthymic, athymic, and cyclosporin A-treated LEW and F344 rats. {\i J. Clin. Invest.} {\b 79}, 1160-1171.\par\par Willenborg D. O. (1979) Experimental allergic encephalomyelitis in the Lewis rat: Studies on the mechanism of recovery from disease and acquired resistance to reinduction. {\i J. Immunol.} {\b 123}, 1145-1150.\par\par Williams R. M., Moore M. J., and Benacerraf B. (1973) Genetic control of thymus-derived cell function. III. DNA synthetic responses of rat lymph node cells stimulated in culture with concanavalin A and phytohemagglutinin. {\i J. Immunol.} {\b 111}, 1571-1578.\par\par Willig F., Vandevelde D., Laurent J., Mharzi M., and Delacour J. (1992) The Roman strains of rats as a psychogenetic tool for pharmacological investigation of working memory - example with RU-41656. {\i Psychopharmacology} {\b 107}, 415-424.\par\par Wilson D. D. (1965) Quantitative studies on the behavior of sensitized lymphocytes in vitro. {\i J. Exp. Med.} {\b 122}, 143-166.\par\par Wirth P. J., Fujimoto Y., Takahashi H., Mori M., Yoshida M. C., Sugimura T., and Nagao M. (1990) Two-dimensional electrophoretic analysis of hepatitis-associated polypeptides in liver of LEC rats developing spontaneous hepatitis. {\i Jpn. J. Cancer Res.} {\b 81}, 477-482.\par\par Witkin J. M. and Goldberg S. R. (1992) Effects of D-amphetamine, Win-35,428, pentobarbital and morphine on schedule-controlled responding in 2 inbred rat strains that differ in locomotor stimulatory effects of cocaine. {\i Behavioural Pharmacology} {\b 3}, 455-463.\par\par Wodzig K. W. H., Majoor G. D., and Vriesman P. J. C. V. (1993) Susceptibility and resistance to cyclosporine-A-induced autoimmunity in rats. {\i Autoimmunity} {\b 16}, 29-37.\par\par Wolkowski-Tyl R., Chin T. Y., Popp J. A., and Heck H. d'A. (1982) Urolithiasis. {\i Am. J. Pathol.} {\b 107}, 419-421.\par\par Wonigeit K. (1979) Characterization of the RT-Ly-1 and RT-Ly-2 alloantigenic systems by congenic rat strains. {\i Transplant. Proc.} {\b 11}, 1631-1635.\par\par Wonigeit K., Hedrich H. J., and G\'9fnther E. (1979) Serologic and histogenetic analysis of apparently identical RT1 haplotypes. {\i Transplant. Proc.} {\b 11}, 1584-1587.\par\par Wright A. W., Klinck G. H. Jr., and Wolfe J. M. (1940) The pathology and pathogenesis of mammary tumors occurring spontaneously in the Albany strain of rats. {\i Am. J. Pathol.} {\b 16}, 817-834.\par\par Wright J. R., Yates A. J., Sharman H. M., and Thibert P. (1981) Spontaneous gastric erosions and ulcerations in BB Wistar rats. {\i Lab. Animal Sci.} {\b 31}, 63-66.\par\par Wu X. R. and Lin P. X. (1992) Effects of cholecystokinin octapeptide on genetically-determined seizure susceptibility. {\i Chinese Medical Journal} {\b 105}, 110-115.\par\par Yagihashi S., Wada R., Kamijo M., and Nagai K. (1993) Peripheral neuropathy in the WBN/Kob rat with chronic-pancreatitis and spontaneous diabetes. {\i Lab. Invest.} {\b 68}, 296-307.\par\par Yagil Y., Lindpaintner K., Rubattu S., Ganten D., and Yagil C. (1995) The SBH/Y and SBN/Y rats are free of genetic contamination and express a high-degree of inter-strain genetic-polymorphism. {\i Journal of the American Society of Nephrology} {\b 6}, 635.\par\par Yamada H., Oi S., Tamaki N., Matsumoto S., and Sudo K. (1992) Histological-changes in the midbrain around the aqueduct in congenital hydrocephalic rat LEW/Jms. {\i Childs Nervous System} {\b 8}, 394-398.\par\par Yamada J. and Nakajima N. (1976) Establishment of two rat strains for testing coat color genes. {\i Exp. Animals (Japan)} {\b 25}, 307-308.\par\par Yamada J., Nikaido H., Moritake S., and Maekawa R. (1982) Genetic analysis of the vertebral anomalies of the IS strain of rat and the development of a BN congenic line with the anomalies. {\i Lab. Anim.} {\b 16}, 40-47.\par\par Yamada J., Mori M., Hamada S., Serikawa T., and Yamada J. (1989) Assignment of tremulous body mutant gene zitter (zi) to linkage group IV of the rat (Rattus norvegicus). {\i J. Hered.} {\b 80}, 383-386.\par\par Yamada S., Masuko K., Ito M., and Nagayo T. (1973) Spontaneous thymoma in Buffalo rats. {\i Gann} {\b 64}, 287-291.\par\par Yamada T., Moralejo D., Agui T., and Matsumoto K. (1993) Biochemical polymorphisms in Long-Evans Cinnamon (LEC) inbred strain of rat. {\i J. Vet. Med. Sci.} {\b 55}, 491-492.\par\par Yamada T., Muramatsu Y., Miwa Y., Kim J. K., Cai Y. Q., Wei K. C., and Matsumoto K. (1995) A mutant strain (LEC) of rat with low degree of zinc-induced hepatic metallothionein gene-expression. {\i Life Sciences} {\b 57}, 1515-1524.\par\par Yamamoto F., Kasai H., Togashi Y., Takeichi N., Hori T., and Nishimura S. (1993) Elevated level of 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine in DNA of liver, kidneys, and brain of Long-Evans Cinnamon rats. {\i Jpn. J. Cancer Res.} {\b 84}, 508-511.\par\par Yamori Y. (1984) Development of the Spontaneously Hypertensive Rat (SHR) and of various spontaneous rat models, and their implications, in {\i Handbook of Hypertension Vol. 4. Experimental and genetic models of hypertension} (de Jong W., ed), pp. 224-239. Elsevier, Amsterdam, New York, Oxford.\par\par Yamori Y. (1994) Development of the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR), the stroke-prone SHR (SHRSP) and their various substrain models for hypertension-related carciovascular disease, in {\i Handbook of Hypertension Vol. 16 Experimental and Genetic Models of Hypertension} (Ganten D. and de Jong W., eds), pp. 346-364. Elsevier, Amsterdam, New York, Oxford.\par\par Yamori Y., Horie R., Ohtaka M., Nara Y., and Ikeda H. (1978) Genetic and environmental modification of spontaneous hypertension. {\i Jpn. Circ. J.} {\b 42}, 1151-1159.\par\par Yamori Y., Nara Y., Tsubouchi T., Sogawa Y., Ikeda K., and Horie R. (1986) Dietary prevention of stroke and its mechanism in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats--Preventive effect of dietary fibre and palmitoleic acid. {\i J. Hypertens.} {\b 4}, S449-S452.\par\par Yanagiya A., Terasaki P. I., Iwaki Y., Ho B. B., Drinkwater D. C., and Laks H. (1992) Prolongation of 2nd heart-transplants in rats. {\i Transplant.} {\b 54}, 690-694.\par\par Yang R., Lin Q., Rescorla F. J., and Grosfeld J. L. (1995) Experimental liver-cancer - improved response after hepatic-artery ligation and infusion of tumor-necrosis-factor-alpha and interferon-gamma. {\i Surgery} {\b 118}, 768-774.\par\par Yen T. T., Roeder H., and Willard P. W. (1974) A genetic study of hypertension in Okamoto-Aoki spontaneously hypertensive rats. {\i Heredity} {\b 33}, 309-316.\par\par York J. L. and Chan A. W. K. (1994) Absence of acute tolerance to ethanol hypnosis in F344 and BN/BiRij rats. {\i Alcohol} {\b 11}, 31-34.\par\par Yosida T. H. (1980) Stidies on the karyotype differentiation of the Norway rat. IV. Segregation and fertility of the Norway rats with inversion pair no. 1. {\i Jpn. J. Genet.} {\b 55}, 397-403.\par\par Yosida T., Hamada T., Wada M. Y., and Ikadai H. (1985) Studies on the karyotype differentiation of the Norway rat XVII. {\i Proc. Japan. Acad. Sci.} {\b 61(B)}, 245-248.\par\par Young J. B., Mullen D., and Landsberg L. (1978) Caloric restriction lowers blood pressure in the spontaneously hypertensive rat. {\i Metabolism} {\b 27}, 1711-1714.\par\par Yu B. P., Masoro E. J., Murata I., Bertrand H. A., and Lynd F. T. (1982) Life span study of SPF Fischer 344 male rats fed ad libitum or restricted diets: Longevity, growth, lean body mass and disease. {\i J. Gerontol.} {\b 37}, 130-141.\par\par Yu B. P., Masoro E. J., and McMahan C. A. (1985) Nutritional influences on aging of Fischer 344 rats: I. Physical, metabolic and longevity characteristics. {\i J. Gerontol.} {\b 40}, 657-670.\par\par Zeiss I. M. (1966) Demonstration of isohistogenicity in groups of rats from partially inbred strains. {\i Transplant.} {\b 4}, 506-509.\par\par Zhang L. X., Wu M., and Han J. S. (1992) Suppression of audiogenic epileptic seizures by intracerebral injection of a CCK gene vector. {\i Neuroreport} {\b 3}, 700-702.\par\par Zhang L. X., Zhou Y., Du Y., and Han J. S. (1993) Effect of CCK-8 on audiogenic epileptic seizure in P77PMC rats. {\i Neuropeptides} {\b 25}, 73-76.\par\par Zhao D., Wu X., Pei Y., and Zuo Q. (1985) Long-term effects of febrile convulsions on seizure susceptibility in P77PMC rat-resistant to acoustic stimuli but susceptible to kainate-induced seizures. {\i Exp. Neurol.} {\b 88}, 688-695.\par\par Zieverink W. D. and Moloney W. C. (1965) Use of the Y chromosome in the Wistar/Furth rat as a cellular marker. {\i Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med.} {\b 119}, 370-373.\par\par
